PsiZip V1.2F
------------
Release date: 08 May 1997


Description
-----------
PsiZip is a compression and file packaging utility for the Psion Series
3a, 3c and Siena palmtop computers.

It is compatible with PKZIP v2.04g (PKWARE) for MS-DOS, Windows, UNIX,
OS/2, and VMS systems, and also ZIP 2.0.1 (Info-ZIP) for MS-DOS and
Windows.  It is the ONLY program to provide effective and fast zip
compression AND de-compression on the Psion!

The PsiZip application includes many new and innovative features, of
which these are just a few:

* Improved compression.  PsiZip makes use of the latest "Deflate"
  compression algorithm.

* Unzip support. PsiZip also has the needed algorithms to support
  the unzipping of zip files.

* Subdirectory storage. PsiZip can find and store subdirectory
  pathnames within a zip file.  Files can then be restored to
  their original subdirectories, or the subdirectories may be 
  re-created.

* Password encryption. Sensitive data files can be scrambled
  with password protection (Registered users only!)


Installation
------------
PsiZip is distributed as a single zip archive.  You will need an Unzip
program which can cope with standard zip formats to unzip the archive.  
Examples include WinZip (Windows) or the original PKUnzip (MS-DOS), 
but there are programs available which run on almost every computer type.
Then follow these 3 simple steps:
  
1. Unpack PsizipXX.zip to an empty directory and check the contents.  
   If they are not as follows, then the archive is either damaged or has 
   been tampered with:

	Psizip.app	The PsiZip application
	Readme.txt	This readme file

2. Copy Psizip.app into an \APP\ directory on any of your Psion disks.
   NOTE: Psizip.app is suitable for storage on Flash SSDs.

3. Install PsiZip from the System screen with Psion-I. or use the menu 
   and select Apps | Install (on English Psions).

Memory requirements
-------------------
PsiZip itself uses about 80k of memory when running, plus about 48k
for archive actions (Add, Delete, Extract, View, Test, Comment) and
12k for every additional 100 files in an archive. This option can be set
via 'Set preferences' (Psion-Q or Menu, Special | Set preferences | Total
files).  This allows values from 100 to 500 for the maximum number of 
files in an archive.

PsiZip also makes a temporary copy of each archive it works with in a
disk/directory that the user specifies (again using 'Set preferences')

So, if the disk for the temporary files is set to the Internal disk, and 
the archive is also on the internal disk, then the amount of memory 
required for PsiZip to run will be this:

	Roughly 128k of internal memory for PsiZip program itself
	+ Space for a temporary copy of archive
	+ Space for the final archive file.

To make sure the actual program has enough System Memory from the internal
disk, the disk for temporary files can be set to an SSD disk (via 'Set
preferences').

If you do use an SSD then it MUST be a RAM SSD.  If you use a Flash SSD,
then any temporary files created will be deleted, but space will not 
be recovered until you re-format the disk (See the Psion User Manual for 
details about Flash and RAM SSDs).

To give the user even more flexibility, PsiZip also allows you to use 
a remote drive or the Cyclone floppy disk drive as a store for temporary 
files (although this will slow down the compression process).

After the archive operations are completed, all temporary files are 
deleted.

NOTE: If you set the path for temporary file to the same directory as 
      the one which holds the final archive, the temporary copy of 
      archive is not copied and then deleted, it is just renamed.

The amount of space needed for the temporary files and the final archive 
and also the amount of compression obtained will depend on the files 
you wish to compress:

Program files (.OPA, .APP, .OPO and .IMG) typically compress by 
about 5% to 10%

Other files (such as .TXT, .SPR, .AGN,...) can be compressed by 
up to 60%, and in some cases even more!

How many files can PsiZip allow in a zip archive?
-------------------------------------------------
A zip file may contain a maximum of 500 file entries under PsiZip.
The actual maximum value depends on the length of the file names
(including the full path if stored) and file comments.

PsiZip requires 12k system memory for every 100 files, thus 500 files
requires 60k system memory.

Usage summary
-------------
The following options are available both on the menu and by using the
relevant hotkeys.  PsiZip has been designed to be very easy to use and
comes with an intuitive User Interface. As a result, you should be able
to use PsiZip without even reading this file or the Help screens. 
Full on-line help is also available within the program - just press 
the 'Help' key.

Use:

* 'New archive' to create a new zip archive, then..

* 'Add file' to add files to the archive. Note the 'Options...' line in 
   the resulting dialog.  The options allow you to:
	1) Select whether PsiZip stores
	   the directory of the files that
	   you are adding
	2) Select an option to add a comment
	   to each file.
	3) Select whether each file will be
	   password protected (and therefore encrypted)
	4) Allows you to select if files are
	   'Stored' or 'Compressed'

* 'Open archive' to open an existing zip archive

* 'Extract file' (or just press Enter over a file or selected files) 
   to extract file(s) from the archive.

* 'Delete file' (or just press Delete over a file or selected files) 
   to delete file(s) from the archive.

* Left, Right, Home and End to move around the displayed columns.

* Up and Down to move rows.

Menu...
----

Archive
-------
Archive | New Archive
Create a new archive.

Archive | Open Archive
Open an existing archive.

Archive | Close Archive
Close the currently open archive.

Archive | Information
Display information about the open archive

Archive | Move Archive
Move archive to a different disk or directory

Archive | Copy Archive
Copy archive to a different disk or directory

Archive | Rename Archive
Change the name of the current archive

Archive | Delete Archive
Delete an archive

Actions
-------
Actions | Add file
Add files to the open archive

From the 'Add file' dialog, there are further settings which
can be selected by pressing Tab on the 'Options...' line:

'Select by'
When this option is set to 'Directory' , PsiZip will search the source
directory for subdirectories.  If any subdirectories are found, PsiZip
searches them for files.  If a further level of subdirectories is found
in a subdirectory, PsiZip will search these as well.

NOTE: Full paths are not stored when the 'Save dir info' is set to 'No'

'Compression'
PsiZip provides two different methods of compression.
To output the smallest files possible, specify the 'Compress' method. Using
'Store' (no compression) is useful when archiving files which will either
not compress or compress very little. This would generally be true when
archiving ZIP, ARJ, GIF, JPG files as these are already compressed. 
By specifying no compression PsiZip will store the files directly rather 
than first attempting to compress them.

'Save dir info'
This option sets whether full path names are stored with each file.

'File comment'
This is pretty obvious, it allows you to write a comment onto each file
as it is stored.  This can be useful if you want to write a small
reminder about the contents of each file in case you forget.

'Password' (Registered users only)
By specifying this option you may encrypt data as it is compressed by 
PsiZip. This feature of PsiZip causes the information contained within 
a zip file to be 'scrambled'.  A file which has been scrambled will be 
unreadable until extracted with the same encryption key (which is derived 
from the password which you supply).


Actions | Delete file
Delete file(s) from the open archive

Actions | Extract file
Extract file(s) from the open archive

Again, there is a sub-option from the Extract file dialog:

'Restore dir info'
This option uses the path names that have been stored in the zip
file by PsiZip. If the stored paths do not exist in the destination
directory, they will be created.

Actions | View file
View files in the open archive using Word or Program editor (which
is set via 'Set preferences')

Actions | Tag all/Untag all
Select/Deselect all files in an archive

Actions | Test archive
Test the integrity of an archive and check for errors.

Actions | Archive comment
Add/Edit the archive comment.

Special
-------
Special | Set preferences
Sets the preferences for PsiZip.  All settings are saved to the file
\OPD\Psizip.ini on the default disk.

These are the options available:

'Style'
Set the font style (eg Swiss/Roman, Bold...)

'Columns'
Allows you to set which columns of information are shown on the 
PsiZip screen.

'Grid lines'
Sets/reset the grid lines for the main screen (i.e. if they're shown 
going up, down or both)

'View file in'
Select the file viewer to use (Word or Program Editor are the only 
choices at present).

'Total files'
Defines the maximum number of files PsiZip will allow in the archive 
(100-500). Every 100 files takes 12k system memory, thus setting 500 
files takes 60k additional system memory. If you never use archives 
with more than 100 files in them, then set 'Total files' to 100.

'Temp dir'
Sets the path for the temporary files.


Special | Zoom in/Zoom out
Change the screen's font size.


Special | Register
Allows you to enter a registration code for PsiZip. Once PsiZip is
registered, this menu item will no longer be shown.
      1) Enter your personal registration code EXACTLY as supplied using
	 upper or lower case as required.
      2) Press Enter


Special | About
Display the About screen with version, copyright contact details and
registration information.


Special | Exit
Exits PsiZip.


Tips & Tricks
-------------
Creating the temporary files on alternate disk
----------------------------------------------
Every time a zip file is updated, PsiZip creates a temporary work file. 
When the modifications to the zip file are successfully completed, the 
original zip file is replaced with the temporary work file.  
This means you must have at least as much additional disk space available 
as was used by the original zip file.

For Example: If you have an existing zip file of 50k, and you are adding
another file to it that takes 10k compressed, you need additional 
workspace of at least 60k during the update process.

The 'Set preferences', 'Temp dir' option allows you to create the temporary
zip file on a disk different from the one on which the original zip file
resides.  This allows you to update large zip files when space is limited,
such as a large zip file on a internal disk.

If the temporary directory is on a RAM SSD, PsiZip's operation becomes
slightly faster.

Add comments for new files
--------------------------
Each individual file contained within a zip file may have a comment 
attached to it.  Comments are useful for identifying files, especially 
if you need to go back months later to look at a file, or if you are 
sending the file to someone else.  Each comment may be up to 128 
characters long, including spaces and punctuation.

Add comments to a zip archive
-----------------------------
Each zip archive file may have a comment embedded into it. A comment 
may be added to an existing archive, or added when an archive is first 
created. It can be up to 1024 characters long.  PsiZip provides a built 
in editor (with Bring, Copy and Paste functions) for you to create an 
appropriate comment.


Bug Reports / Comments
----------------------
Please send all bug reports and comments to the author (Serge Shestopalov) 
at the address shown in the Support section below.


Registration
------------
PsiZip is Shareware, which means you can try the program before deciding
to purchase it, and you may give copies of the trial version to other
Psion users to try. However, you cannot legally continue to use the
program if you decide not to register it, nor may you give copies of the
registered version or the registration code to others.  You may use the
trial version for 30 days, and I will provide assistance to get the
program to work with your Psion during that period, but further support
is available only to registered users. 

The registration fee is UKP £15 or USD $25 for cash, if you use
a registration service then the fee is as shown below.

Payment can be made by...

	* Cash only (no cheques please) sent to
		Serge Shestopalov
		Balvu 15-56
		Riga, LV-1003
		LATVIA
		EUROPE

	* GO SWREG on CompuServe, using the ID number 13291 ($29.50)

	* Using the RegNet service on my World Wide Web page ($29.50)

*Important note*:  Please do not send cheques.  The local banks all 
		   charge an excessive amount to cash them.  The
		   easiest way to register is by sending cash in a
		   good STRONG envelope (between two pieces of paper
  		   so you cannot see through the envelope).

Once registered, you will receive a personal code to free PsiZip from 
the nag screen and limitations. There is no need to re-install.

Please include you full name and the version number of PsiZip.


Support
-------
This product is supported via e-mail only.
Please send all messages to:

        Internet: dustman@stoat.riga.lv
        CompuServe: 100526,1317

The latest version will always be available from my Web page:

	http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/Serge_S/

Disclaimer
----------
Although the program has been tested extensively, there is no guarantee 
that it is error free. Please make backup copies of all your important 
data!

The author will not be liable for any damage or consequential loss caused
by any error, defect or failure of the application.

History
-------
   11/10/96 - v1.0 PZip release, Zip only.

   01/12/96 - v1.1 alpha release: GUI added, still Zip only.

   24/02/97 - v1.2a beta release, Unzip added.

   08/05/97 - V1.2F final released


Thanks
------
To my beta testers....

- Jochen Siegenthaler (100127.3167@compuserve.com)
- Phil Spencer (nicko@nildram.co.uk)
- Steve Litchfield (slitchfield@cix.compulink.co.uk)

-----------------------
PsiZip and this readme file are Copyright (C) Serge Shestopalov 1997.
All Rights Reserved.
