                                JBSortB
                             Version 1.0
                           (c)JBSoft 1995/6

                                  Ё
                                  цд©
                                юбады
                                 юд©
                                 дды

JBSortB is a utility to sort Data files by ASCII in the background or
the foreground. It will, in fact, sort any database files created with
Data or by the Psion OPL CREATE command. It works on both the S3 and
S3a.

The program can be installed anywhere you wish on your Psion but you
will need to specify the complete path regardless when running the
application (the example OPL file assumes that JBSORTB.IMG is in an
\APP\ directory).

If you prefer to use an \IMG\ directory then, to stop the application
appearing under the RunIMG icon, rename it to SYS$JBST.IMG and alter
the OPL code accordingly. If programmers intend to use the program
please distribute it as JBSORTB.IMG so that multiple versions don't
appear to fill up people's disks.

The code is started from an OPL translated file (an example is
included in the Zip rather than appended to this document). Unlike
JBSort, the three fields to sort on can be configured on startup and,
as there is no user interface once started, the program can run in the
background or the foreground - you can either wait for the sort to
finish before continuing or continue whilst the sort progresses.

To define whether the program works in the foreground or background
the header character needs to be changed to 'O' for background and 'F'
for foreground - if programmers don't wish the filename being sorted
to display when in the foreground then use 'M'. The enclosed OPL file
should show you all the alternatives available.

There is extensive checking for memory availability and, should the
program fail for lack of memory at any time, the system should be
cleared of any temporary files made by the application at the time of
the failure. The maximum memory for sorting purposes will occur when
the program is run in the background as the screen setup does require
some additional memory.

The program will sort in ascending order using the specified fields as
the key fields in the order in which they are given in the command
line - the sort will over-write the existing file. The direction of
the sort (ascending) is not user-definable and the completed sort will
always over-write the existing file - if you need either of those
alternatives to be changed then JBSort will do it for you.

The program works by creating a string (made up of the three field
choices in order) for each record along with the position of the
record in the file. This string is then sorted and the result is then
written in the appropriate order to another file. Assuming that
another file has not been specified for the result, the original file
is then deleted and the new file renamed to that of the original.

To enable large data files to be sorted I have included a fall-back
procedure that is hierarchical and works in the following order:-

     1. As specified.
     2. Limit length of each field to 8 characters.
     3. Reduce by one the number of fields to be sorted.
     4. Repeat 3 until only one field is left - if it still fails then
        the program fails.

Obviously, the further down the tree the program has to go, the longer
it will take to complete its task.

Should the program fail at some point in the procedure then there
should be no lasting damage as the last thing the program does is
delete the original and substitute the new file, prior to that, the
original file is not altered in any way. If the option to over-write
was chosen and the program fails, there may be a file called JBZZ.DBF
created. This can be deleted with no problems (this is the file that
is renamed as the last action of the program).

Limitations
-----------
The main limitation to my program is the 64k limit on data in any
program (this 64k limit does not refer to the database size but the
amount of data that an application can have). The actual sort takes
place in memory and so there is a great deal of data temporarily held
there. The probable limit to the size of the database is going to be
around 5,000 entries but this is purely theoretical and could be
wildly out. If you come across a database whose sort fails through
lack of memory I would be grateful of that information along with the
number of records (and type of fields being sorted) so that I can
update this section of the 'manual'.

Sort is limited to 3 fields at present (again, this could be increased
given the necessity).

The program requires sufficient space on the drive to create a
duplicate file of the same length as the first file. The program
checks for this availability and, if there is insufficient memory
available, the program will fail. The program will also fail if there
is insufficient RAM in which to run. As a guide, the program itself
requires around 60k but this is variable and is somewhat related to
the size of the file being sorted - it is impossible to give accurate
figures due to variability of the files being sorted.

Contact
-------
John Boyce
CompuServe: 100014,1240
CIX/Internet: jboyce@cix.compulink.co.uk






















Release Information
===================
Version   Information
---------------------
1.0       First release to the public domain.
