StockIt Version 1.05 Shareware

Copyright Chris Nicholson 1997/1998

Please mail all suggestions, comments or details of problems to me at 
ChrisNicholson1@csi.com

Visit my web site at http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/chrisnicholson1
for all the latest information and updates on my programs.

StockIt is a powerful stock control/pricing program. Its' features include; 
list views, tagging of records, 4 user defined fields, 5 percentage fields for 
marking up or down, import facility, linking Word and Sheet files, and a pricing 
calculator to ensure correct pricing. The stock control monitor alerts when stocks 
fall below user defined levels and will generate both order and transaction reports 
to allow you to monitor your business. 

REGISTRATION

StockIt is shareware. You can use it free for 21 days, after this it 
must be registered. Until you receive your registration code each file is restricted 
to only 8 records.
               
This software represents many hours of programming, so if you like it please register.

StockIt can be registered in two ways.

. Compuserve On-line registration ($35) via "Go Swreg" SWREG ID = 16761

. By Mail, send a cheque for £20, made payable to Chris Nicholson, to

	5 The Kilns
	Calne
	Wiltshire
	SN11 8HJ
	England
	

DISCLAIMER

No responsibility is accepted by the author for any loss of data, however 
caused, by the use or misuse of StockIt. The responsibility for any consequences
of installation or use rest solely with the user. No warranties or guarantees of 
any kind are implied. The author accepts absolutely no responsibility for any 
decisions formulated using information provided by StockIt.


DISTRIBUTION

StockIt is freely distributable to anyone so long as it is distributed in 
UNMODIFIED FORM along with this unmodified readme file, and that no further fees 
are charged.  


FILES

Registered users should make a note of their registration code before proceeding.	

Stockit.opa		Any drive :\app			Program file	
Stock1.opo		Any drive :\app\stockit		Program file
Stock2.opo		Any drive :\app\stockit		Program file
Stock3.opo		Any drive :\app\stockit		Program file
JbsortB.img		Internal M:\app			Sort module (please note that this is the new version)

Optional files
		
Stohelp.rsc		Internal M:\app\stockit		Help file

INSTALLATION

Copy the file Stockit.opa to directory \app on any drive.

Copy Stock1.opo, Stock2.opo and Stock2.opo to the directory \app\stockit\ on any drive.

If you want to use the online help then install the file Stohelp.rsc to the directory 
M:\app\stockit\ on the internal drive.

Then install StockIt on the system screen using Psion-I. 

Either press enter to create a file called PriCalc or press Psion N
and type in a new name followed by pressing enter.


ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

John Boyce for the use of his sort program Jbsort.

Arthur Karpman for his excellent suggestions and assistance.


HISTORY

Version 1.05

Minor bug fixes

Version 1.04

Added category to transaction report sorting
Included main screen in the diamond key
Added sort details to the help file

Version 1.03

Address change
Minor bug fixes

Version 1.01

Initial release


Getting Started

When you first run the program you will be taken through a setup 
procedure that allows you to specify your program preferences. I
have setup some defaults so that you can use these and then, if 
required, change them at a later date. 

The program will then automatically go to the add screen so that 
you can enter your first record. You will need to add one record 
to allow access to the rest of the program. If you are unsure, 
just enter any information because the record can always be 
edited or deleted later.

File Management

StockIt supports multiple files so that, if required, you can 
divide your information into different categories. To create 
a new file from the system screen put the cursor under the 
StockIt icon and press Psion-N, you will then be prompted for 
a new file name. Once this is completed StockIt will start 
with this as the current file. To start using an existing file 
place the cursor under the StockIt icon on the system screen 
and scroll down to the required file, then press enter.

Preferences

StockIt supports multiple preference files, giving you 
the ability to set up different field headings and percentage 
settings for any file. 
To create a new preference file select Preferences from the 
menu and new. You can now use the preference settings in the 
menu to assign your new requirements. To open a different 
preferences file use Psion-j and select the file you want to 
use and press enter. The new preference are now in use.

Adding a record

The first field is used throughout the program as the main 
identifier, so I would suggest that this is used for a products 
unique reference, eg part number or name. 

The next 3 text fields are completely free for you to enter any 
relevant information.

The next field allows you to put products into categories, which
can be defined by you. This allows for easier viewing when used 
in conjunction with the sorting facility.

The next field is for you to enter the intial price. This can 
either be the list price or a cost price because the program can 
mark up or down, dependent on what setting you have selected in 
the percenatage preferences.

After saving the record you are prompted to input the stock 
information for this item. Enter the current stock level and then 
the minimum order level. This can then be monitored on a daily
basis, when the program is started or using shift-Psion-C. If you 
do not want to use this feature leave the fields blank and then 
accept the zero warning that appears.

Importing Records

You can import records from other Psion Data files by using the 
import facility. Select Psion-I and decide whether you want to 
import to the currently open StockIt file or create a new one,
then select the Data file that you want to import.

Next define the field layout of the Data file that you are 
importing. For example if the import file fields are in the 
following order; User Field 1, User Field 3, User Field 4, 
User Field 2. Then you would insert the following numbers for 
the relevant fields;

User Field 1 - 1
User Field 3 - 2
User Field 4 - 3
User Field 2 - 4

Program Control

There are 2 list views, all and tagged records, and you can 
alternate between them by using Psion-L.

Using the escape key will always take you back to the list view 
that you are currently using.

To move between records in list view use either the up/arrow keys, 
page up/down or home/end.

Records can be tagged to allow selective viewing or export 
options. To operate the tag option use the Tab key to turn the 
tag on or off.

To select a record from the list view press enter.

To switch between Screens 1 and 2 use the Diamond key.

To move between records in normal view use either the left/right 
arrow keys or home/end.

Each record can have a Word note attached to it. by pressing the 
"N" key. The first time that you do this you will be prompted to 
either link to an existing Word file or to create a new one. Once 
you have specified the file the program will automatically launch 
this file when the "N" key is pressed. You can edit the linked file 
information from the preferences menu.

Each record can have a Sheet note attached to it. by pressing the 
"S" key. The first time that you do this you will be prompted to 
either link to an existing Sheet file or to create a new one. Once 
you have specified the file the program will automatically launch 
this file when the "S" key is pressed. You can edit the linked file 
information from the preferences menu.

To move to a particular record number use Psion-J.

Stock Control

To add to a product's stock level press the "+" key and enter the 
quantity of units added to stock, the supplier and a purchase 
number if required.

When you want to reduce the stock level press the "-" key and enter 
the quantity of units sold, customer name and an invoice or receipt
number. If there is insufficient stock then you will be warned of 
this and if you opt to proceed then this will be noted as a back order.

The minimum order level monitor can be set up by the settings in the 
general preferences or you can manually activate it by pressing 
shift-Psion-C.

By pressing shift-Psion-C you can check to see if any items require 
ordering, including back orders and then produce a report detailing 
the quantities etc.This can be automatically run everytime the 
program is started or the date is changed by selecting the required 
option in the general preferences.

All transactions are recorded and a transaction report can be 
produced by pressing shift-Psion-I. You will be prompted as to how 
you want the data sorted so that the report is more useful.

You can calculate the total value of all the products in stock in
this file by pressing Psion-T. Please note that all products that 
are on backorder are treat as a zero value.

Exporting

You can export either all, just an individual record or tagged 
records to a sheet file. If exporting all then you can choose how 
you want the data sorted.

Pricing Calculator

This section can be used to check and assist with the correct
pricing of a product or service. As long as the correct data is
entered, it will calculate the minimum amount of units that need to
be sold to achieve either breakeven sales or a set profit value, or
the actual sale price.

In these calculations a unit refers to the individual product, and
breakeven in this instance is the number of units that need to be
sold and not their sales value.

