NOTES ON PRODUCING .WDR FILES FROM .WD SOURCE FILES
===================================================

    Read as much or as little of this document as you wish.
    The .wdr system is very powerful and therefore takes some time to learn
in all its details.  But individual users may be able to achieve their
desired effects without understanding more than a fraction of what follows. 
Try it and see.

A gentle introduction to WDTRAN
-------------------------------
    The accompanying file General.wd is essentially the source for the
built-in "General" printer driver.
    Make a copy of this, as Learn.wd.
    Edit the NAME line in the "TYPEFACE courier" section, changing "Mono"
to "FontName".
    Edit the NAME line in the "MODEL" section, changing "General" to
"ModelName".
    Then type "WDTRAN learn".  This should produce a file Learn.wdr.
    Copy this file into a \wdr\ top-level directory on LOC:: on your
Series3.
    You'll find that "ModelName" appears in the "Select printer" choice
list inside any Print Setup dialog you invoke.  And if you select this
model, you'll find that "FontName" is the single allowed entry in any
"Font" choice list (except of course for "Inherited" in some WP dialogs).
    You have just created your own .wdr file.  Its functionality is
identical to that of the built-in "General" printer model.
    NB 1) The maximum allowed length for a font name is 20 characters.
       2) The maximum allowed length for a model name is 24 characters.
    Exceed these limits and you'll get a compilation error.

Easier compiling
----------------
    If you are using Brief, set the environment variable BCWD as follows
        set bcwd=!"wdtran.exe %s"
so that you can compile using Alt-F10 and have Brief position you
automatically to any syntax error.

Comments
--------
    When WDTRAN encounters an "!" on a line (except within a quoted
string), it disregards this and everything else on the line as a comment.
    Blank lines are also ignored.
    The block indentation scheme in .wd files is for convenience only.

Font heights
------------
    In the above example, the height of the font was displayed in the
dialogs as "12", meaning 12 points, where one point is 1/72 of an inch.
    In .wd files, font height is specified in so-called "twips", which are
TWentIeths of Points, so that 1 inch = 1440 twips.
    The height you give for a font should of course match the height of the
font as it is printed.

Font widths
-----------
    Fonts come in two sorts - monospaced (in which all characters have 
the same width), and proportional.  See below for more on proportional
fonts.  In the above example, the font is monospaced, with a constant width
per character of "1".  The units here are as specified by the "MIN_X"
field of the "MODEL" definition.
    "MIN_X" is the minimum movement the printer head can make in the
x-direction.  In the above case, this is presumed to be 1/10 inch (144
twips), ie the width of a standard character in a 10 cpi ("Characters
Per Inch") font.

Font command sequences
----------------------
    The above printer model only has one font.
    In contrast, there are a large variety of fonts in the accompanying
file Epson.wd.
    For example, under "TYPEFACE pica_rx", there are two different fonts,
one that is 12 point and 10 cpi, and one that is 16 point and 5 cpi.  Each
of these has its own "COMMAND" sequence, which is what the software sends
to the printer whenever it needs to select this font.
    Inside command strings, numbers in angled brackets evidently translate
into binary values.  Ie "<27>w" is the Escape character (ascii value 27)
followed by a lower-case "w".

Fonts and typefaces
-------------------
    Many different fonts differ from each other only in that they are
essentially different sized versions of each other.  Such fonts can be
grouped together into "typefaces".  Thus the two Epson fonts just mentioned
are both in the "TYPEFACE pica_rx" section, whereas there are other
fonts in eg the "TYPEFACE elite" and "TYPEFACE times" sections.
    The user sees all the different fonts in any one typeface as being
different "Heights" of the same "Font".  The common name of these fonts is
given by the "NAME" field in the "TYPEFACE" section. Thus in the above
example, the user would see a "Size 12" and a "Size 16" font, under the
title "Pica".
   The other restriction for placing fonts together in a typeface is that
they must have the same set of "TRANSLATE"s and the same "TYPE" (see
below for more details of these).

Translates
----------
    The set of translates (if any) used by a font is as specified by the
"TRANSLATE" field in the enclosing "TYPEFACE" definition.
    The value of "TRANSLATE" must be a lower-case name which exactly
matches the lower-case name of a "TRANSLATES" block within the same .wd
file.
    There can be more than one "TRANSLATES" block in any one .wd file.
    Each "TRANSLATES" block in turn consists of one or more translations,
such as
        5:35
to turn any characters with ascii value 5 into characters with ascii value
35 (note that the Series3 font gives the telephone symbol as used in the
Database the value of 5, so that you had better translate this to something
your printer is more likely to be able to handle), or
        156:"<27>R<3><35><27>R<0>"
to intercept any œ symbols (ascii value 156) in output sent to the printer
and replace them with the specified escape sequence.
    Another type of use might be to convert the character "O with a slash
through it" (Series3 ascii value 157) into the sequence 'O' followed by
backspace followed by '/'.

Other commands
--------------
    As well as the command strings to select various fonts, a .wd file
contains commands to have the printer perform other functions.  These are
defined in the "COMMANDS" block at the start of the .wd file.
    These commands are by and large clearly named, eg "ITALIC_ON" and
"ITALIC_OFF", "BOLD_ON" and "BOLD_OFF", and "SUPERSCRIPT_ON" and
"SUPERSCRIPT_OFF".
    If a printer cannot support a given feature, you can leave the
corresponding command string null ("").  One possible exception is
italic which, if not supported, could be implemented as an underline.
    Note incidentally that it is possible for a printer which supports
italic in one font not to support it in another font, and so on.  Again, a
printer may support both italic and superscript, but not both at the same
time.
    You may find it particularly fruitful to experiment with these command
strings - especially if your printer is one than is somehow an "enhanced"
model of one that is "officially" supported by Psion.

The preamble commands
---------------------
    The string of commands sent to the printer when printing starts are
among the most important, as regards influencing the printed outcome.
    The very first command the software sends the printer is the "RESET"
command.  Then it sends a "FORM_LENGTH" command, and then the "PREAMBLE"
command, before starting to print the document proper (together with
headers and footers, etc).  At the very end, a "POSTAMBLE" command is sent.
    The "POSTAMBLE" command may be needed to flush the printer buffer, and
to restore the printer to its default settings.
    The "PREAMBLE" command may have such drastic consequences as choosing
the basic configuration of the printer (possibly overriding defaults set
via dip switches).  "Consult your printer documentation for full details."
    The units for the "FORM_LENGTH" command are ALWAYS 1/6 of an inch.

Special characters in command strings
-------------------------------------
    The commands "MOVE_RIGHT", "MOVE_DOWN", and "FORM_LENGTH" are each used
in conjunction with a value passed by the printer subsystem software.  For
example, the commands are to set the form length TO A GIVEN VALUE, or to
move the printer position right BY A GIVEN AMOUNT.  This value may either
end up in the command string by a process of substitution, or it may result
in the command being repeated as required:
        if any of these commands is defined as starting off with an
asterisk character ('*'), what is actually sent to the printer is the
REMAINDER of the command string (ie minus the initial asterisk) REPEATED
the specified number of times
        if the string "%d" is contained within the command string, the
specified value is converted the decimal representation and is substituted
for the "%d" (like printf in the C programming language)
        likewise the string "%c" means to substitute the specified value as
a single byte (character), and "%w" means to substitute it as a pair of
bytes (low byte first) - ie as a so-called "word".
    For example, in many printer drivers "MOVE_DOWN" is defined as "*<10>",
so that "MOVE_DOWN n" will be sent to the printer as n line feed characters
(line feed is ascii 10).
    Again, in the HP Laserjet III printer driver, "MOVE_DOWN" is defined as
"<27>&a+%dV", so that "MOVE_DOWN 6" (say) will be sent to the printer as
"<27>&a+6V".
    This kind of substitution can also take place in the command strings to
select various fonts.

Checking what's actually being sent to your printer
---------------------------------------------------
    The technique of PRINTING TO FILE can be invaluable for debugging
printer drivers.  Print to a file and then dump the contents - without the
data going anywhere near a "real printer".

Stop reading here
-----------------
    The remainder of this documentation is less likely to be immediately
relevant to hackers of .wd files.

The "TYPE" of a typeface
------------------------
    This has significance only when a document set up for one printer is
subsequently printed on another printer.  Font "substitutions" have to be
made - and these are done according to the values set for "TYPE".
    The value of "TYPE" may also be used in some forms of RTF conversion.
    There is a large list of allowed values of "TYPE".
    In general, one of the monospaced typefaces of a printer should be
assigned a TYPE of COURIER, meaning that this font should be substituted
for any for which an exact TYPE match is impossible.
    If a printer only supports one proportional typeface, this should be
assigned a TYPE of TIMES_ROMAN, even though it may have a different name
(eg "Proportional").
    If a printer supports more than one proportional font then one with
serifs (if available) should be assigned a TYPE of TIMES_ROMAN, and one
without serifs (if available) should be assigned a TYPE of HELVETICA.

More on MODELs
--------------
    A given .wd file can support more than one printer (or so-called
"printer model").  There will be one MODEL block for each printer model
in the file.  However, all the printer models in a given file have to share
the same set of printer commands.
    The notion of a "printer model" is essentially a device to cover more
than one printer using the same data.
    The line "LANDSCAPE_AVAILABLE" should be present in a MODEL declaration
if the printer supports being put into landspace mode.  In this case, the
"LANDSCAPE" command in the "COMMANDS" block will be non-null.

MIN_X, MIN_Y, SKIP_X, and SKIP_Y
--------------------------------
    MIN_X and MIN_Y are the minimum possible horizontal and vertical
movements of the printer head.
    Movements right of the printer head are specified by the software in
units of MIN_X.  Movements down are specified in units of MIN_Y.
    MIN_X and MIN_Y are themselves specified in twips, unless the line
"MIN_X_IS_DOTS_PER_INCH" is present in the declaration of the MODEL.
    SKIP_X is subtracted from the first move right command in each line of
text, to compensate for the fact that many printers cannot print at the
left edge of the paper.
    SKIP_Y is subtracted from the first move down command in each page, to
compensate for the fact that many printers cannot print at the very top of
the paper.

Fonts have not one WIDTH but four
---------------------------------
    By default, it is assumed that the processes of bolding and italicising
do not alter the widths of characters printed.
    But this can be overridden by the presence of some keywords
"WIDTH_BOLD", "WIDTH_ITALIC", and/or "WIDTH_BOLD_ITALIC" in the definition
of a font.
    The possible values taken by these keywords are the same as for plain
"WIDTH".  Namely a single value for monospaced fonts, and a reference to a
font width table for proportional fonts.
    The way that you indicate that a font is proportional is to include 
the keyword "PROPORTIONAL" in the enclosing TYPEFACE definition.
    Incidentally, a keyword "SERIF" in a TYPEFACE definition is of limited
significance, being used only for the purposes of some variants of RTF load
and save of Word Processor documents.

Scalable fonts
--------------
    Some printers support fonts in not just a few sizes but in a whole 
scaleable range.  This is indicated by the keyword "SCALED" in the
definition of a TYPEFACE.
    In this case, there can only be one FONT section for the typeface.
    "HEIGHT" actually means "minimum height", and the keywords "HEIGHT_MAX"
and "HEIGHT_DELTA" should also be supplied, for such a font.

Re-using font width tables
--------------------------
    Set the keyword "WIDTH_SCALE" in the "FONT" section for a proportional
font, if the values in the indicated font width table are all to be
multiplied by the given number before being used.
    This allows font width tables to be re-used if the widths for one
proportional font are just constant multiples of those in another (eg as
would happen if double width is used).

Compressed and uncompressed .wdr files
--------------------------------------
    The .wdr files output by WDTRAN are in standard UNCOMPRESSED format. 
It is in fact possible to run another tool to compress these further.  The
printer driver files in the rom of the Series3 are in this compressed form. 
This partly explains any differences you may detect between files you can
produce from .wd files and WDTRAN, on the one hand, and the files in the
Series3 rom, on the other hand.

The ultimate in refinements
---------------------------
    It is even possible to customise the behaviour of the printing
subsystem more than just by providing DATA (ie the contents of .wdr files).
Set a special flag in the .wd file and the printing subsystem software will
look for a like-named .dyl file, which it will then invoke so that
additional CODE will run (in the .dyl file).
    This is in fact the way that the PostScript printer drivers work.
    Documentation of the .dyl interface for printer drivers is COMPLETELY
beyond the scope of this document.

More documentation
------------------
    See some of the comments within the accompanying .wd files.

These notes prepared
--------------------
    By DavidW on 21/4/92.
