TIMEMAN 1.0 for Siena

Hi!

Thank you for downloading what I think is one of the most valuable additions to your Siena!
It isn't much, but I needed it so much and since couldn't find anything that even came close
I decided to write it myself.
Now I think it's time to share it with my fellow Siena users.

The effort of programming wasn't so much as I thought it would be (2 days for the core to
work, 2 additional days fine tuning).
Therefor I think it's very reasonable of me to only ask you to send me a postcard if you
decide to use Time man 1.0 for longer than the official trial period of 30 days.
The program is nag free, so don't feel obliged to do anything, I'd only appreciate it
very much!! :-)

- What is it?
It's nothing more or less than a very sophisticated stop-watch. It keeps track of 14 
projects, which can be given any name (less than 20 characters), and any rate to
calculate the total costs so far (total=time*rate).

- Installation:
Well this part is extremely simple. The program only constists of 1 executable, named
TIMEMAN.OPA and should be placed in the \APP directory.
Create an \APP\TME directory so TIMEMAN can store the log results in it's own timeman file.
After adding TIMEMAN in the systemscreen (psion-I) you might want to give it a short-cut
key, I mapped the 'time' button to it, since I realy don't care about time (the app) at
all. You could also decide to make it ctrl-time for example...

- How to use it?
On startup TIMEMAN generates an empty TIMEMAN.TME file and is ready for use. First you'll
want to change the name of one of the projects, since they're all called 'empty' (or
'nothing'). This is done on purpose since the program discards empty projects and doesn't
calculate totals for projects without a name.
Press psion-n to give one of the projects a name (the selected one to be exact). If you
want to start timing just press enter on the activated (inverted) project, and you'll see
a dialog telling you when you started timing for this project. Pressing enter again adds
the time spent to the total, escape discards the time spent.
If you accidentaly forgot to start the timer before working, you can always add time to
the total by pressing psion-a. You can only add 23:59 at a time.
This feature is also handy for people charging a standard offset tarif when starting on a
project.
In the case you forgot to stop timing, and pressed enter instead of escape, you can
substract time from the total by pressing psion-s. again, only 23:59 can be substracted
at a time. Substracting more than the total results in a total of 00:00.
This is the same as resetting the project (psion-z), except that the rate is set to 0
too with this feature. Setting the rate can be done with psion-r, can contain only
integers (no fractures) and must be smaller than 999 (if you earn more than that you
probably have someone to count the time you're working for you :-)
Psion-x (saves and) quits TIMEMAN, but you probably won't need this anyway. Pressing del
in the systemscreen is checked and handled accordingly. Del in the TIMEMAN screen erases
all data for the selected project.
Pressing escape in the overview screen pushes TIMEMAN conveniently to the background.

A menu isn't implemented (yet) and I doubt if it ever will. It works fine for me this way
so for those who can't help pressing menu in apps I put an about box there. This also
contains my address in case you want to send me the forementioned postcard!

resuming:

psion-n		change the name of a project
psion-r		change the rate for a project
psion-a		add time
psion-s		substract time
psion-z		reset project (but keep name)
psion-x		close TIMEMAN
del		delete project (all zero, no name)
esc		put TIMEMAN to background (when not timing!)
ENTER		Start timing

- Will this timer load my Siena excessively, and make it any slower?
No, the only thing I do when I start the timer is store the current time. Later, when you
press enter again, I substract this from the new current time and from this
calculate the total time spent working in seconds accurately (only minutes are shown).

- Funny features I'm proud of:
You can't stop the application when timing!
Try adding so much time that the hours go over 100!

Why TIMEMAN (the name?)
It's abbreviated from TIME MANAGER.

6 april 1998
Martin van Es

martine@scintilla.utwente.nl
http://mw75.student.utwente.nl/~martin
