Running a PSION S3a-emulator under Windows95
--------------------------------------------

The PSION-S3a emulator is software to simulate
a PSION S3a on a PC. This can be handy to exchange
data with the PC, to have a virtual backup S3a
in emergency situations, or for development work.

The emulator is available from CompuServe's PSION forum,
at PSION's web site http://www.psion.com/downloads/pc/,
and from traders specialising in PSION software.
The emulator was written by PSION staff to support
inhouse development, but is not an official
PSION product and is not supported by PSION.
The emulator is freeware, however, traders might
charge a nominal amount for the floppy.

The emulator run's under DOS, and unfortunately
it does not run in a DOS window but only in full screen
mode. Windows95, however, can switch to DOS mode
automatically. To set up the emulator for Windows95
proceed as follows:


1. Create a new directory on the C-harddrive.
   and call it 's3emu'. (using Windows Explorer).
   Copy all emulator files into this directory.

   Other drives are fine too, simply replace
   the drive letters in the following instructions.
   Stay away from compressed drives - in case
   of an emulator crash a scandisk might become
   necessary. On a compressed drive this takes
   ages.

   Delete all batch files that came with the
   emulator. Do NOT try to execute them as they
   will hang up Windows95.

2. Open the new directory.
   Within this new directory create the following directories:
   M		for the internal disk
   A		for flash disk A
   B		for flash disk B

3. Copy the following files from this package into \s3emu

     S3a.ico		Icon representing an S3a

     hhserver.s3a	parameters for emulator
     s3a.bat		runs an S3a with the original screen size 480x160

     hhserver.pc	parameters for emulator
     bigs3a.bat		runs an S3a with screen size 640x400

     hhserver.pcv	parameters for emulator
     verts3a.bat	runs an S3a with screen size 480x480


4. Within \S3emu

   - Right click S3a.bat and select 'Properties'.
   - Click the 'Program' tab.
   - In the first line change the name to 'S3a' (or whatever your like).
   - Under 'Working' enter the name of the emulator directory: C:\S3emu .
   - Leave the other lines unchanged but click 'Advanced'.
   - In the following dialogue click the 'MS-DOS mode' check box.
   - Check or uncheck 'Warn before entering MS-DOS mode' (up to you).
   - Now set 'Specify a new MS-DOS configuration' to checked.
     The windows for CONFIG.SYS and AUTOEXEC.BAT should now show some content.
   - In the last window (AUTOEXEC.BAT) add the following lines
      under the last line:

        lastdrive=z
        SUBST M: C:\S3emu\m
        SUBST A: C:\S3emu\a
        SUBST B: C:\S3emu\b

     Make sure that this window does not contain any other conflicting
     SUBST commands.
     These SUBST commands simulate the disks for the emulated S3a.
     You must specify them all, even if you do not want Drive A or B.
     Otherwise the emulator would ask for floppies when started.
   - Click OK
   - Click 'Change Icon'.
   - Under File Name specify: C:\s3emu\s3a.ico
   - Click OK, Click OK, Click OK
   - You should now be back in the directory window and there should
     be a new element called 'S3a'. If not, click 'Refresh'. You can now
     drag this icon to the desktop, if you like. To test, double click
     the new icon. Windows will shut down and there will be a brief moment
     where you look at the clouds and contemplate where you want to go today.
     Eventually MS-DOS will boot up and start the emulator.
     Your new S3a will be equipped with two Flash disks (A and B) and they
     will be huge. You can also access all other disks on the PC, including
     compressed disks, CD-ROMs, Cartridges.
     The only thing which you cannot access are floppy disks, because their
     drive letters have been taken away.
     Printing is possible through parallel and serial port, and it is also
     possible to exchange data with a real S3a through the serial port.

     To stop the emulator press CTRL-ALT-Esc. The emulator will inform
     you about FATAL ERROR 0 (= no error) and ask you to press a key. Do so
     and Windows will boot up again.
   - You can now repeat this process for BigS3a.BAT and VertS3a.BAT. Or you can
     simply make copies of the new S3a item and change the Command line in
     'Properties|Program' accordingly.

  5. Unfortunately there is no emulator for the S3c, but there is an emulator
     for PSION-Siena (from the same sites). If you want to install this emulator,
     copy its files into a different directory, say C:\SienEmu, and copy the file
     Siena.BAT from this package into this directory, too.
     Then proceed as described under 4, but use C:\SienEmu as working directory.

  6. We found it convenient to add a few lines to C:\AUTOEXEC.BAT

	lastdrive=z
        SUBST I: C:\S3emu\m
        SUBST L: C:\S3emu\a
        SUBST R: C:\S3emu\b

     These instructions will list your S3a drives as separate drives in Windows.
     They will appear in the 'My computer' folder and can behave like disks.
     To avoid name clashes with floppies they have been renamed:

                Windows     S3a
                ---------------
                I           M   internal drive
                L           A   left flash disk
                R           B   right flash disk

     You may choose other drive letters if you like.

  7. Startup
     Leaving the emulator is like a hard reset on the real thing.
     When you start the emulator again, all applications and groups
     must be reinstalled.
     This process can be automated with a program found in
     AUTOINST.ZIP in this package. Please refer to the documentation
     provided there.

  8. Exchange of data
     Connect your palmtop to the PC with the serial cable (3-link).
     Activate the Link function in the palmtop and in the emulator.
     You are now able to copy files, directories, or whole disks
     between both computers, or to backup disks to from one computer
     to the other, using the functions in the PSION system menu.
     When running applications on your palmtop, you can open files
     on the emulator, and vice versa.

  9. Printing
     Printing from the emulator is possible in the usual way, either
     through the parallel or serial port.

     It is also possible to print from a real palmtop through the
     emulator to a printer:
     On both the palmtop and the emulator start the Link function.
     Invoke printer Setup on the palmtop, specify the printer model
     and select 'File' as printer port.
     For the file name specify 'REM::LPT1' if your printer is connected
     to the LPT1 port of your PC. Then use the applications print function.

     Note: Both printing function require that your printer works
     in DOS mode. This is not possible with some GDI printers, which
     require the Windows GDI active.
     Newer PC's can set up the parallel port as ECP port using
     DMA instead of IRQ. For DOS printing, set the parallel port
     up as a bidirectional port (using IRQs). This must be done
     in the BIOS - changing the setting in Windows doesn't affect DOS.

  10. Troubleshooting

     Emulators have usually a few shortcomings and this one is no exception.
     There are a few things that are not quite compatible:

     - gtmode 2 in OPL doesn't always work properly.
       This can for instance make cursors leave a trace on the screen.

     - ioopen mode 4 (unique filename)
       The file name reported differs from the actual generated filename.
       A following ioread with the reported filename will not find the file.
       If an application uses this file mode, you may get an error message
       'File does not exist'. Our own applications do not use this mode.

     - Some key combinations don't work
       CTRL+3digits are not translated into an ASCII character.
       Shift-F9, Shift-F10, Shift-F12 are not reported as
         Shift-MENU, Shift-HELP, Shift-Diamond.

     - Keyboard scan codes are always zero. Applications using
       keyboard scan codes, such as some games, do not work.

     - The PC sound card is not supported. Instead you get only very basic
       sound effects from the emulator. Tone dialling doesn't work either.

     - ALT + cursor key cannot be used as PageUp,PageDown,Home,End.
       Instead, use the original PageUp,PageDown,Home,End keys on your keyboard.

     - BigS3a and VertS3a. We have observed some applications bombing out when
       used with a big screen. OPL-written applications (OPAs) don't have this
       problem, but badly C-written applications (APPs) may.
       The inbuilt applications work all very well with the big screen.

11. Purpose

     - We provide this information to make our applications for the PSION S3 range
       more useful. The following applications run on the emulator:

	F11:	  yes, but some keys are different:
		  use ALT-Esc followed by F9 (Menu)  for Shift-Menu.
		  use ALT-Esc followed by F10 (Help) for Shift-Help.
                  Text selection by pressing the two Shift-keys doesn't work.
	HyperPoc: but Sound effects are very basic, no tone dialling
	MusiPoc:  tunes can be edited, but not played, and the piano doesn't work
	FlowPoc:  yes, no tone dialling
	PicPoc:   yes
	PocDoc:   yes, no tone dialling
	PocView:  yes
	ProPoc:   yes
	RepPoc:   yes, no tone dialling

	All applications: cosmetic problem in Help (Morpheus) - the cursor leaves
              a trace when moved.

12. Open questions
    Users of Windows95sr2 have the choice between to file systems FAT (the traditional)
    and FAT32. I haven't tested the emulator under FAT32 yet but can't see a reason
    why it should not run under this system. Please drop me a line if you have
    experience with this setup.

Author contact:

    Berthold Daum
    lichtbild@compuserve.com
    http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/lichtbild

End of document
