Using Autoroute or Interactive Atlas to generate maps for MM3A.

	Contents.

	1.	INTRODUCTION
	2.	AUTOROUTE
	3.	INTERACTIVE ATLAS

---------------------------------------------------------------------

1. INTRODUCTION.

Two programs that let you generate maps that you can use with MM3A
are Autoroute (published by Microsoft) and Interactive Atlas of Great
Britain (published by Attica). Both permit you to use maps generated
by the program for your personal (ie non commercial) use. Autoroute
is around 50 pounds and Interactive Atlas is around 40.
Similar procedures should possible with other mapping software.
---------------------------------------------------------------------

2. AUTOROUTE.
These instructions are for Autoroute Express 1997 Edition for Windows
95. I recommend switching your desktop to 640x480 before running
Autoroute so that a full screen map is small enough for MM3A.  Run
Autoroute and select "View the map". Now select the menu item
VIEW/MAP DISPLAY and select either the detailed or simple road map.
You can also select the pushpins you would like to see on your map. 
Now return to the map and use the zoom and drag functions to adjust
the map until is shows your desired area. Select the menu item
TOOLS/LOCATION SENSOR to display your Lat/Long or OS Grid reference. Move your
mouse to the left hand edge of the map and gradually move your mouse
up until the mouse is over the HOME menu title. Now read the values
 shown on the location sensor. Now move the mouse to the
right hand edge of the map and gradually move the mouse down the
screen until you leave the map. Again read the location sensor. You
now have the upper left and lower right coordinates required for the
MM3AMAPS.DBF file.  Select TOOLS/LOCATION SENSOR again to remove the
location sensor from the display. You should also remove any other
items displayed on your map that you don't want to copy. Now minimise
the program and run Paint Shop Pro. Select the menu item
CAPTURE/SETUP and select the items marked "Full screen" and "Hot Key"
only. You should configure your hot key to be something that you are
not using as a Windows hot key. I use F11. Now select "Capture now".
If Autoroute doesn't restore itself then go to your task bar and
restore the Autoroute display.  Now press your hot key and your
computer should switch to the Paint Shop Pro display with your
Autoroute screen captured in a window. Now use the selection tool
(dotted box icon) to drag a selection around your map. Select
"EDIT/COPY" then "EDIT/PASTE/AS NEW IMAGE" and your map should now be
in a window of it's own. Close your other windows and follow the
instructions in SCANNING.TXT, chapter 5 onwards for converting the
map to the Psion.

---------------------------------------------------------------------

3. INTERACTIVE ATLAS.
Start the Atlas program and select the MAPS option. Use the zoom and
scroll icons to adjust the map to your desired area. I would suggest
using the LAYERS option of the CONTROLS menu to reduce the complexity
of your map. I select only the following layers. MOTORWAYS, PRIMARY &
a ROADS, B & MINOR ROADS and SETTLEMENTS. Note that these layers
reset when you change maps eg from 1:625,000 to 1:250,000, this
happens automatically and is very annoying. I also find the maps lack
road names except at the highest zoom levels.  When you are happy
with your map the select the "GRID REFERENCE" button and read values
for the upper left and lower right corners of your map. You should
carefully move your mouse from within the map to outside the map
attempting to exit at the corner. Do this a few times to make sure
you are recording the exact reference at the corner. You now have the
upper left and lower right coordinates required for the MM3AMAPS.DBF
file. Select the "PRINT" button and click on "SAVE TO FILE". Give
your map an appropriate name and click on "SAVE".  Now run Paint Shop
Pro, load the image you have just saved and follow the instructions
in SCANNING.TXT, chapter 5 onwards for converting the map to the
Psion.
