SCANNING.TXT


Scanning maps for use with MM3A.

If you intend to scan printed maps you should ensure you are not
breaching any copyright. Consult the details on your map and contact
the copyright owner if you are in any doubt.

Scanning a printed map, while simple in theory, contains a large
number of variables that must be mastered in order to make the most
of the limited resolution and colour of the Psion's display. In this
document I will detail the procedures I have used during the
development of MM3A. I use a Windows based PC for my scanning and so
unfortunately cannot explain in detail how to use another computer
for this process. Hopefully the stages I describe will be familiar
enough that you can adapt them to your own environment. Also some of
the tips mentioned here will apply to any platform. If you intend to
use Paint Shop Pro then you should copy the file PSION.PAL to the
directory you installed PSP in.


1.	SELECTING A MAP.
2.	SCANNING THE MAP.
3.	IMAGE PROCESSING
4.	RESAMPLING AND CROPPING
5.	COLOUR REDUCTION
6.	CONVERSION TO .PIC

CHAPTER 1.	SELECTING A MAP.

The first thing to bear in mind is that MM3A only works with
Transverse Mercator projection maps. This map type is one who's
projection results in the parallels and meridians forming a
rectangular grid. Put simply if your map's grid lines are parallel
with an edge of the map then the map is probably suitable. You will
also need the Lat/Long or OSGB grid reference of the upper left and
lower right corners. If you are using a UK map and your map doesn't
have OSGB markings then all is not lost. Many maps are based around
this format while not being marked as such. Attempt to correlate the
grid lines on a OSGB map with your desired map, when you have
established the relationship you should be able to make an accurate
reading.  If you have several suitable maps from different sources
you should consider the following when choosing your map. As the
Psion's display is monochrome it makes sense to start with monochrome
maps if possible. Pay attention also to the scale of the map, choose
a scale appropriate to your intended use. 3 miles to the inch is a
good scale for most driving needs whereas for hill walking a scale of
3 inches to 1 mile would be better. You should also examine the
smallest detail of your map that you wish to reproduce. Very tiny
text on a map means you must scan at high resolutions to reproduce
this, resulting in other map details depicted too large to be useful.
If you are using colour maps you will find that some are better than
others when converted to monochrome. There are too many combinations
of map colours and monochrome conversion methods for me to lay down
any hard and fast rules, experiment with different maps and note the
results.
---------------------------------------------------------------------


2.	SCANNING THE MAP
The following discussion only applies to users of Windows based PCs
running Paint Shop Pro. If you aren't using a windows based PC then I
apologise for not being able to provide specific instructions but
hopefully you will recognise the processes I'm describing and apply
them to your own setup. If you do achieve success then please email
the details to me so that I can include them in the next release.

If you are running Windows 3.1 then you will require Paint Shop Pro
version 3.12 16 bit. Windows 95 or Windows NT users should obtain
Paint Shop Pro version 4 or above. Paint Shop Pro is a very popular
shareware paint program, versions can be obtained from most shareware
libraries. If you have internet access you can download the latest
version from www.windows95.com
Paint Shop Pro is subsequently referred to as PSP.

Most scanners come with some simple scanning software and a TWAIN
driver. Either use your supplied software or PSP's 'File/Aquire' option
and scan your map. If you can choose the scanning resolution then
select the highest (most dots) your computer can comfortably handle.
Ideally you should scan at 24 or 32 bit resolution to fully capture
all of the detail present, be aware that this does result in a file 3
or 4 times the size of a 256 colour image. Given the choice between a
low resolution 24 bit picture or a high resolution 256 colour image I
would recommend the high resolution 256 colour one. If you have a
monochrome scanner then select the highest number of grey scales that
your scanner provides, probably 256. If you are using a colour
scanner then the software will probably have an option to scan in
monochrome/grey scale. Experiment with this but it is my opinion that
you are better off scanning in colour and carefully controlling the
grey scale conversion yourself.

When you have scanned your image the first thing to do is check the
alignment. You need to ensure that your scanned lines are parallel
with your window edges, one way of doing this is as follows. If you can
see grid lines on your scan then reduce your image window size in PSP to
about 1/8 of the screen. Next adjust the scroll bars until a grid
line is aligned with some detail on the window such as the edge of
the scroll bar. Then move the other scroll bar and ensure that the
grid line remains a aligned with your reference. Selecting a
magnified view may help during this process. If your lines are not
parallel then you should move your map and rescan until you are happy
with the alignment.
---------------------------------------------------------------------


3. IMAGE PROCESSING.

Depending on the quality of the scanner and the maps, you may
improve your scans by applying some image processing. You should
experiment to determine what functions give best results although
note that some effects will only be visible after you have produced a
Psion .PIC file. Some functions also make the image look worse in
colour although they will look better when on the Psion.
I suggest you experiment with IMAGE/EDGE FILTERS/EDGE ENHANCE or
IMAGE/NORMAL FILTERS/SHARPEN, (these options also have 'MORE'
versions). Experiment with these, perhaps applying more than once.
The goal here is to improve the legibility of the small details.

4.	RESAMPLING AND CROPPING.

When you are happy with your scan you need to select the area you
will make your map from. The limitations of the Psion .PIC format
govern the maximum size you can use. You need to ensure that the
product of your horizontal and vertical pixel sizes is less than
524288, (note that the WSPCX program will fail with sizes very close
to this limit).  Some suggested sizes are: 512x512, 640x480, 800x600. 
As the Psion's display is wider than it is tall, it makes sense to
choose sizes with approximately the same aspect ratio.

At this stage you can experiment with the IMAGE/RESAMPLE option;
resampling your map to a smaller size will let you cover a larger
area for a given pixel size, or you can keep the same area but occupy
less disk space. The downside to this is that your maps may become
harder to read, either they become too cluttered or you start to lose
small details (fine text for example).
When you have finished resampling you need to mark a selection and
save this as a new picture.
In PSP, select the 'dotted box' icon (define selection) and drag a
box around the area of interest, keep an eye on the bottom of the PSP
window as this gives a constant display of the size of the area
defined. The display is of the form (x,y)->(x,y)=(w,h). The w and h
figures are the ones to watch.
Now select EDIT/COPY, followed by EDIT/PASTE/AS NEW IMAGE to
produce a new image from your selected region.
---------------------------------------------------------------------

5.	COLOUR REDUCTION.

Your picture now needs to be reduced to black, white and grey.
Firstly you should convert your picture to a 256 level greyscale by
using the COLORS/GREY SCALE option. You can also try separating the
red, green and blue components to make a grey scale. Do this by
selecting IMAGE/CHANNELS/SPLITTING, note that this feature is not
available in PSP 3.12 Examine the split pictures and decide on the
best, for me this is usually the green channel. Separating the
colours this way is worthwhile if your scanner adds a small colour
fringe around your 24 bit scans (some hand scanners suffer from
this). Colour splitting is also good for removing or highlighting
particular areas of your map, note how the colour of the roads varies
from a conventional grey scale conversion.
When you are happy with your grey scale, select COLORS/LOAD PALETTE,
select NEAREST COLOR MATCHING and double click on PSION.PAL (supplied
with MM3A). If you can't see the PSION.PAL file listed you should
navigate your disk until you can. You should now have a black, white
and grey picture, if you feel that you have lost some detail or the
picture is too dark or light then select EDIT/UNDO. Now select
COLORS/ADJUST/BRIGHTNESS CONTRAST and adjust the image. Usually I
increase the contrast until all the areas between any detail are
white and then adjust the brightness to avoid losing detail in the
brightest regions. It is difficult to give any hard and fast rules,
experiment with many settings and you will gradually develop a
feeling for how to produce the best result. It is probably worth
saving your grey scale picture before adjusting the brightness and
contrast so you can start from the unprocessed picture each time. If
you apply brightness and contrast changes too many times in
succession you risk losing detail.
Note that if you wish to generate a monochrome image (ie no grey
plane) then select COLORS/DECREASE COLOR DEPTH and select 2 COLORS.
Monochrome images are harder to read but will occupy half the disk
space that a grey one would.
---------------------------------------------------------------------

6.	Conversion to .PIC

To use the picture you have produced you need to convert to a .PIC
file. If you use PSIWIN to copy files from your PC to your PSION then
select FILE/SAVE AS and then change the "save as type" entry to
"BMP-OS/2 or Windows Bitmap". Now change the "sub type" field to
"Windows RLE Encoded" and select "save". You will be asked if you wish
to decrease the colour depth to 256 colours, select "yes" and the file
will be saved.
When you use Psiwin to copy this to the Psion it should be
automatically converted to a .PIC file. (Personally I don't use
Psiwin so I welcome the experience of anyone who tries. If you have
problems, try following the instructions below for non Psiwin users).

If you don't use Psiwin you will need to save your selection as a .PCX
file. Select FILE/SAVE AS and then change the "save as type" entry to
"Zsoft Paintbrush". Now change the "sub type" field to "Version 2"
and select "save". You will be asked if you wish to decrease the
colour depth to 16 colours, select "yes" and the file will be saved.
Next you will need to use the program WSPCX.EXE which is a Psion PLC
program for DOS. This can be obtained from most collections of psion
software. Run the program from DOS (or a dos box in Windows95 or
Windows NT) with the command line:

WSPCX -P filename.pcx

This will produce a .PIC file which you should now copy onto your
Psion using MCLINK, RFM or which ever program you normally use to
copy files. I would suggest placing all your maps into a MM3A\MAPS
directory. Having created your map you should add an entry to the
MM3AMAPS.DBF file (see manual.txt for details).
If WSPCX reports the error 'bitplane larger than 64k' then your file
has too many pixels. You will have to resize or rescan your map.
