                         
                         Convert V2.0b
                         -------------

This program can be used to perform conversions between a
variety of different weights and measures. The program itself
now performs over 150 different conversions! 

Installation is extremely simple. Just copy the CONVERT.APP
file into your APP directory (if you have a Series 3a). If you
have a Series 3, copy the CONVERT3.APP into your APP directory.
Then create a CONVERT directory, and place the CONVERT.CFG file, 
and the CONVERT.DBF file into this directory. Select Install 
from the APPS menu on your system screen, and choose to install 
CONVERT.APP. 

After installing, you should have the following installed
on your system:

\APP\CONVERT.APP (or CONVERT3.APP if you have a Series 3)
\APP\CONVERT\CONVERT.DBF
\APP\CONVERT\CONVERT.CFG (should be stored on drive M: as this 
                          file is continually modified)

Operation is also extremely simple. 

The program will show the credits and the registration 
message, and then take you straight to the Main Menu. From 
here you simply select the type of conversion you wish to 
perform from the Convert menu. e.g. linear measure for 
converting between inches and feet. 

A dialog containing the various choices will appear. Use
the left, right, up and down arrows to select between the
units of conversion. Pressing Tab on a choice box brings
up a list of possible choices. Press S to swap the two 
units of conversion around. Once you are happy with your 
choices, press ENTER, and you will then be taken to the 
Conversion Dialog.  

Here you must enter the value that you wish to be converted
and press ENTER. The Series 3 will then display the answer
and wait for you to press a key. You will then be taken back
to the Conversion Dialog for another conversion using the
same units of measurement. If you do not wish to make another 
conversion using these measures you simply press ESC. To exit 
from the units selection, press ESC. Finally to exit the 
program press ESC at the Main Menu. 

To change the number of decimal places move to the other menu
and select Decimal Places. The program comes with a default of
2 decimal places.

You are prompted to enter the Number of decimal places. This
is the number of decimal places that the value to be converted
and the final converted result will be displayed to. You can
have a maximum of nine decimal places. Once you have set the
number of decimal places, you will be returned to the main
menu.  

Bug Fixes / Upgrades
--------------------

Version 1.0 released 1/1/94

Version 1.1 released 26/3/94

- Fixed Centigrade / Fahrenheit Conversion Bug. Now converts
  properly.

- Decimal Place setup is now held in a configuration file, and
  does not need to be set every time you start up the program.
  Program comes with a setting of 2 decimal places. Decimal
  Place setup can be changed from a new menu (Setup).

Version 2.0 released 15/11/94

- Completely revamped menu system, and the selecting of various
  conversions. Selection is hopefully quicker, and easier to do.
  Also added swap feature allowing easy switching between 
  different units. Due to this change, the program now works on
  the Series 3!

- Added extra conversions to the program. 

- Completely rewrote the original code, compacting it from 13K 
  to 5K!.

- The conversion values are now held in a file (CONVERT.DBF).

- Added registration via a code.

Version 2.0a released 19/11/94

- fixed bug that forced all of the files on to the m: drive.
  Files can now be stored on any of the three drives.

Version 2.0b released 22/11/94

- Now works with the Series 3 as well as the Series 3a.

Registering...
--------------

This program is shareware. If you enjoy using it or find it
useful, please support the author by sending œ5.00 to the
following address: 

Nick Haworth
3 Petersfield Rd,
Duxford,
Cambridge,
CB2 4SF
ENGLAND
(E-mail address: nickh@cam.dungeon.com)

Registered Users
----------------
If you have previously registered the program, just write to
me and I will register you for the new version free of charge.

And finally...
--------------
If you have any comments/queries or suggestions for the
program, do not hesitate to write to me at the above address.  

* Ideas for the program are more likely to be taken into 
  account if you register the program! *

I am also available as a freelance programmer. Please write to 
me at the above address for details.

Thanx a lot! Your support ensures the future development of
Psion applications!  Enjoy!!
