DataImp VIDEO (c) Patrick Bell, 1996. --------------------------------------------------
Please look at README.TXT and DATAIMP.TXT first as they contain information for all DataImp modules!

Quick Start
-----------
1.	Copy JBSORTB.IMG and DATAIMP.OPA to \APP\
2.	Copy DATAIMP.HLP, VIDEO.OVL and VIDEO.HLP to \APP\DATAIMP\
3.	Install DATAIMP.OPA in the usual way (Psion-I)

You should now have the DataImp icon with Video underneath it.  If you have installed any other modules such as PHOTO.OVL then these will also appear under the icon.

The files JBSORTB.IMG, DATAIMP.OPA and DATAIMP.HLP are used for all the DataImp modules and only need to be loaded once.
If you do download a newer version of any module you should also check you have the latest version of DATAIMP.OPA and DATAIMP.HLP and your other modules to ensure that the upgrade applies to all modules.

VIDEO
-----
The Video module comprises 3 main screens:
	
Tapes
This shows the tape reference, it's length ,number of recordings, the amount of empty space, the amount of optional free space (this is space taken up by a recording that has been marked as Finished [-]), and the amount of total space (this is the empty and optional space added together).  You can also view the Tape brand and a comment.

Recordings
This screen shows the tape reference, the position of the recording on the tape, mono / stereo, recording type,  source, date recorded, length, speed (i.e. LP, SP), title, comment, information, and it's status (seen, not seen, finished or keep).

Matches
This is identical to the recordings screen but shows any recordings you have selected via the Find menu option.  When you have created any matches a screen is allocated to them.  This uses an extra 9K of RAM but when you remove all the matches this memory is released.

The menu options that are module specific are as follows (refer to DATAIMP.TXT for general instructions).
[In the following the left hand column denotes the key press for the function]

Data
----
A	Swap reference
This enables you to give a tape a new reference and will automatically relabel all the recordings stored on that tape.

Tapes
-----
E	Regenerator
This function will recalculate the amount of Free space on a Tape by looking at all the stored recordings.  To use it you should ensure that all your Tapes exist and are long enough to accomodate your recordings - the routine will crash if the recordings are longer than the tape!).  If you are not certain of the tape lengths then set them all too long - you can always edit them later!

Config
------
Q	Defaults
This allows you to choose:
	
Tape length: Sets the default tape length i.e. E180, E240 etc.  (you can give the extra minutes that are really available on a tape e.g. an E240 is in fact 244 minutes long).
Recording length: This sets the default recording time i.e. if most things you record are 30 minutes long then set this to 30  - it saves typing it each time.
Record speed: Again just a time saver - if you don't have an LP option on your recorder then set this to SP.
Comment: This is usually left blank but if you do not have a real time counter on your machine then I suggest you use the heading "Counter:" here and then as your comment put the counter total - this will give you an idea of where the recording starts and ends on your machine.
plus the general DataImp choices.

U	User defined lists
The recording type (drama, thriller, sci-fi etc.), Recording source (BBC1, Satellite etc.)  and Tape brand (Scotch, TDK, Sony etc.) are editable by the user. The number that appears to the left of each description is the reference that will be stored in your datafile.  This means that if you swap comedy for horror then all the films that you had described as horror will now be comedies - therefore alter these with care or your descriptions could become meaningless.
	
----------------------
If you have a lot of recordings already entered into PBVideo or another Psion compatible database then contact me to discuss converting them.