Downloading the time


"NistTime" basics

A number of places around the world offer a dial-up time service to
anyone with a computer, modem and corresponding software.

This program will dial the service offered by the US National
Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST, formerly NBS) and set
the Psion clock and or record the error.

Other services that I have tried deliver a different format of data. 
I may consider extending the repertoire of service numbers to call in
the future.  However each call is very short and hence cheap.
The UK service, in contrast, is on a premium-charge telephone 
number and runs at only 1200 baud.



Dialling dialogue

The initial dialogue shows the locale and the full number to be
dialled, merely for confirmation.  It also allows the 3-Link speed to
be set up for modem transfers.  The default of 19200 baud should be
OK for Psion 3A.

The only choices at this point are to Esc and leave the program, or
to dial through the modem, or to go to a further dialogue to
determine a prefix for dialling out via a PABX.

Or, of course, view this help file.



Place and Time Zone

The location from which the call is being made and the country which
is being called (USA) are shown so that the dialling prefixes, if
any, can be verified.

Similarly the time zone is shown because it will effect the
calculation of local time.  The time given by NIST is GMT or UTC.

The zone is not merely the geographic one but includes Daylight
saving if this is set by the "Clock" built-in application.



Error handling

The program endeavours to cope with problems with data from the modem.  If
the 3-Link is absent this is discovered immediately.  If the modem
does not respond then the program will time it out.

The data from NIST contains "*" for accurate time signals.  This must
appear within the first 20 lines or the program will give up.

The date and time is given in a simple fixed format and is simply
decoded.  If digits of the date or time are not in place then the
erroneous input is displayed with the faulty characters
indicated.  If the date or time are faulty then just the input is shown.

Adjustment

The clock adjustment is made by the number of seconds shown in the
dialogue.  The time is NOT set to the localised NIST time, so any
delay in answering the dialogue does not matter.  There is no way of
altering the adjustment that will be made.



The log file

The name of the log file is chosen using a special dialogue.  If the
file already exists then its contents may be replaced by the new
single entry or the new entry added to the end.

The file selection dialogue is repeated until the answers are
consistent with the state of the file discovered.

If the write fails, perhaps because the file is currently open, the
dialogue is repeated ready for another attempt.

If the dialogue is abandoned then clock adjustment, if it was
requested, will already have taken place.



Logging

The logging of the current (UTC) time, error in seconds and whether
the correction was applied does not currently have a defined purpose.
It is intended in the future to support periodic adjustment to correct the average daily error.

The current time is recorded in days and decimal days since 1/1/1970.
 Any calculation should be independent of changes in time zone.

The indicator of whether a change was made is 1 for change and 0 for
none, so it can be used as a multiplier of the error to get the
alteration.



Further reading

The dial-up services are really intended for use via PCs so PC
software is available from NIST.

This software can be obtained for free ftp download from: 
time_a.timefreq.bldrdoc.gov or for $42 on diskette by
post from: Office of Standard Reference Materials, NIST,
Gaithersburg, MD, 20899, (301) 975-6776



Additional technical information

The information given here about PC software and additional detail
can be obtained direct from NIST by dialling the number that this
program uses via a terminal emulator instead and sending a "?"
character as directed.

The international dialling prefix that this program uses is obtained
using functions provided by the "World" built-in application. 
This assumes that the "home" location is correctly set up.  
It also temporarily alters the "Default country" that is set 
by the Control-Dialling menu entry from
the System screen (to "USA").  If the program crashes this might not
be reinstated and must be corrected by hand.

However I have not discovered from the "Psionics" documentation how
to extract the "dial-out" prefix as set up by that menu entry, hence
the program offers its own dialog to establish the prefix for
dialling via a PABX.



About program and author

"NISTtime" Version 1.0, written by Mike Coon of UK.

Contact 106710.2362@compuserve.com

Usual restrictions placed on freeware apply.
