New in LOG-IT! 6.03

1. Fixed a bug in the printing
2. Added new sorting feature - Sort by Activity in Log view
3. Fixed Leap year bug
4. Replaced our custom calendar with the built-in calendar.
5. New Help supports the built-in help index.(reduces program size)
        Filename - Logit.rzc  (old file Loghelp.rsc can be removed)
6. Changed upper date limit to the year 2037.


New in LOG-IT 6.01

        Note: Pelican.lib now goes in an \App\Logit directory, and not
        \App\Pelican\.

        Note: Copy the Scrprnx.dyl to a \Dyl directory.

1. New Printing lets you use the built in Printer drivers in the ROM.
        . Print Setup   - lets you choose the familiar print setup dialog.
        . Print Preview - lets you use the built in print preview.
        . Printing though PsiPrint
2. When leaving Logit and coming back, the cursor remains on the same entry.
3. LOG-IT saves font size from Log view on exit.
4. Removed the Log-it copyright in the timer view to make room for the
   activity display.
5. Added Activities. This lets you apply an activity to each timer event, to
   give more information when printing. This also will allow for printing based
   on activity from the Log view.
6. Space bar in Timer view brings up the comment window, and lets you change
   the activity type.
7. Sorting activities. Psion shift<J>
8. Log View - new menu option - Show Activities. This option will show activities
   in the Charges column. There is no other place really to put it, so this is
   the tradeoff. (hotkey = / )
9. Printing adjusted to allow for printing by activity.
10. Added the ability to create Log files from the Timer view.
11. Disabled force quit (Psion<Escape>). This would stop Logit from saving
    active timers.
12. Better "Set Filter" operation in Log view. You can now filter by date. Logit
    will also now show you "By Date", or "This Year" on the bottom of the screen
    in the Log view when appropriate to show you that your totals are limited by
    date. To reset dates to All, just press Psion<F> and set Date Filter to
    "All Dates", and type in * in the Search Item field.
13. New Hotkey - * key sets filter back to All, and sets date back to default.
14. Removed "Total by Date" since it isn't needed anymore. The one filter option
    handles this now.
15. After printing to file, or Exporting to file, Logit will give you the option
    of launching Word to view the file.
16. Added Plugins to Logit. Psion Shift<P> in Log view. I've also included a
    sample plugin that shows how to create your own custom export module.
    Plugins documentation are included. (Plugins.txt)
17. Pressing F alone brings up the Set Filter dialog.


New in LOG-IT 5.2

1. When entering a New Entry in the Log view, the database comes up.
2. Main Window height is shortened one line in Log view, and new Total window
   is added at the bottom. (Total Time and Charges has been removed from the
   menu)
3. New menu option - "Set Filter" lets you limit the totals on the bottom
   to the total for a selected item.
4. Charges are now more accurately displayed, and are based on the number of
   decimal places you are viewing. Set this in the preferences. In earlier
   versions of LOG-IT, the charges were figured based on the total time, to
   the second. This was confusing since the screen wasn't showing the elapsed
   time at this level of accuracy. In fact, when you change the settings for
   how many decimal places to view, you will see the amount change for
   individual and total charges.
5. New hotkeys
        . Right/Left arrow keys (Log view only) changes the number of
          decimals being viewed. Right arrow increases, and left arrow
          decreases.
        . Psion Shift<space bar> - Sets Filter back to "All"
6. Faster scrolling
7. New Preference - "Base Charges on How Many Decimal Places"


New in LOG-IT 5.11

1. Fixed printing bug, and made the space for the description longer.
2. Added Archive by date
3. Added "Version" to menu in Log View


New in LOG-IT 5.1

1. You can override the hourly rate for a database item by typing in a rate
   when starting a new timer.
2. The hourly rate in a database item no longer shows in (35.00) brackets. This
   allows you to use () characters in your database items.
3. Log View no longer does a redraw after many actions. You can add, update,
   delete, and LOG-IT! will keep the current cursor position without redrawing
   the whole screen.
4. New Help system uses the new LogHelp.rsc file. Load this into any \app\Logit
   directory.

New in LOG-IT 5.01

1. Minor bug fixes
2. Changed Total by Item Starting Date to 1/1/year-1
3. Added Psion<+> support for editing notes

New in LOG-IT! 5.0

1. Database is unlimited. Add as many items as needed.
2. CountDown Timer added. - You can only have one running at a time.
   You also have a choice of Sounds from wve files on your machine.
   Press the tab key on a Countdown timer to expand it's window. When starting
   a Countdown timer, LOG-IT! will open a big window. You can minimize this
   window keeping the Countdown timer running by pressing the Escape key. Use
   the menu key to view options.
3. Press 1-6 to jump to a timer, pausing or resuming it. Whatever the
   opposite is of it's current state.
4. Printing includes comments if needed.
5. Printing lets you set lines per page.
6. Override LOG-IT!'s autosave to Database by ending the Description with
   the @ character.
7. New feature/setting. Allow More Than One Active Timer. This lets you
   force LOG-IT! to allow only one active timer. Starting a new timer puts
   any currently running timer on pause. Resuming any timer pauses any running
   timers. (If you're don't allow more than one active timer)
8. Added a new item in the Log view. "Total by Item". This new option will
   give you a total time and charges for a select item.  LOG-IT will do a
   search of the current log totalling time and charges for matching items
   only. This is useful for totalling items when they are all in a single
   log file, and not separate logs.
9. Average Charge - To get the average charge, use "Total by Item".


New in LOG-IT 4.3

1. Fixed a bug that causes sorting to incorrectly report "Not enough disk
   space".

2. Fixed a bug that reports 12:00am instead of 12:00pm.


New in LOG-IT! 4.2

1. Menu item in Log View - "Add an Entry" lets you manually add an entry
   so that you can enter items into the log without having to start a timer.

2. Menu item in Log View - "Export Log File" lets you export your Log files
   to CSV format. Also includes other delimiters and an option to include
   quotes around all fields.

3. LOG-IT! nows closes it's windows when going to backround, except in the
   Log view when pressing Esc to jump to Banker. This also means that LOG-IT!
   now uses less memory when in the backround.

   This means that when you come back into LOG-IT! from the system screen
   you must have enough memory free in the Window Server in order for
   LOG-IT! to be able to open up it's windows. If you don't have enough
   free memory, LOG-IT! will tell you, and send you back out to the system
   screen.

4. Comments can now be 200 characters in length. (instead of 100)

5. Commas not allowed in database names. This caused an error.
