PSION Series 3 Printer Driver for IBM 4019 Laser Printer
--------------------------------------------------------


The file IBM4019.WDR is a printer driver that will allow a Psion Series 3 or 3a Palmtop
Computer to use most of the functions of an IBM 4019 laser printer. It can also be used
with other PPDS printers such as the IBM 4029. However the scalable fonts used on such
printers are not supported by this driver (yet).


Installation:
-------------

Copy IBM4019.WDR into any \WDR\ directory. Preferably use your internal drive
so that it is always available. (NOTE: The file must go into a \WDR\ directory,
NOT a \WRD\ directory!!!). Then in any application that you wish to print from
(eg. Agenda), press PSION-Y to carry out print setup. In the Print Setup dialog
cursor down to the "Printer Model" line and press TAB. You should then be able
to select "IBM 4019" as the desired printer. Press ENTER to save your new choices.

Features and Limitations:
-------------------------

This printer driver has a number of limitations caused by my incomplete understanding
of the IBM PPDS page description language and the limitations of the Psion printer
driver interface.

  Supported fonts: Courier 8.5pt 10pt and 12pt

  Page orientation: Portrait or Landscape

  Emphases: Bold, Underline, Superscript & Subscript.


Limitations: Italics are converted to underlining, because the PPDS language does not
seem to support an easy way of switching on italics (please let me know if there is!)
Cursor down movements are performed 1pt at a time. This means printing is slower
than ideal. It also means print files are larger than I would like. The 8.5pt
Courier font has a pitch of 17.1 cpi. This rather odd pitch cannot be exactly 
represented in the driver and gives rise to some small errors in line length 
calculation when used in "Justified" mode in the Word processor application. 
You may find the extreme right hand edge is a little uneven. Most of the time 
its not noticable.

I wanted to make this driver also include the scalable fonts for the IBM 4029
printer. However it looks impossible without the use of a .DYL program. 
This is way beyond my present abilities! Sorry!

Finally:
--------

I wrote this printer driver for my own needs and it is offered as Freeware
without any warranty that it will do exactly what you need!
I welcome comments about its performance but cannot offer any guarantee that
I will be able to fix any reported bugs.

Enjoy!


Howard Golton

Email CIS: 70374,40
      INTERNET: 70374.40@COMPUSERVE.COM
