NOTE: To view this document set tabs to 2 characters and set Word Wrap on.

GOLF ASSISTANT


INTRODUCTION

The idea for this program arose from the need to learn OPL and at the same time produce a program that would be useful and keep the interest in programming in OPL going.  I have been playing golf for more than 20 years and am aware that there are many types of competitions many of which I have not programmed into this electronic score card.  If there are any often played competitions that you would like to be programmed please feel free to request this enhancement. The now program provides the facility for the user to write their own competition modules.

This software is freeware but I reserve the right to change this status at any time.  If this program does become shareware it will become so as a new version so that older freeware version can always be identified.

I have tried to test every possible scenario to find as many bugs as possible.  It is not possible to kill ALL bugs, so if anyone does find a bug I would be grateful if you would let me know so that I can fix them for future releases.

Please email any comments/requests to ross-jones_k@geocities.com


WHAT'S NEW IN VERSION 1.11

A new menu option "Display Results" has been added to display the full results for any selected player.  This option has been added for the occasions when the result are too large to be displayed on the main screen.  See the Amigos game as an example.

A new competition, Amigos, has been added.

Code has been tidied and improved so most of the program files are now smaller.

The Matchplay and Skins games have been updated.


INSTALLATION

The installation is very simple.

1.	Copy the golfa.opa file to any directory and then install it from the system screen.  The first time the program runs it will create a directory /GLF and /GLF/BIN.  The /GLF directory is where all score cards and golf course details are saved.

2.	Copy all competition modules (*.opo) to /GLF/BIN.

3.	Copy the help file (golfa.rsc) to /GLF/BIN.

4.	Copy the competition database (comps.dbf) to /GLF/BIN.


GENERAL

This program displays a graphical representation of a score card which cateres for up to four playes with handicaps ranging from plus 9 to 36. Player names and handicaps can be entered by selecting the appropriate menu item or hot-key.  There are menu options and hot-keys for entering par and strokes for all holes.  There is full support for saving scores and course details.

A number of different types of competitions can be selected and all competitions cater for blackouts (blowouts or whatever you may call them).

Competitions are implemented as separate OPL modules and are defined in the comps.dbf database.  For a complete explanation of writing your own competitions see the comps.txt file.


SAVING SCORES AND COURSES

A score card can be saved to disk with ALL details (course details, player details and scores). Results are NOT saved as these can be easily calculated to any competition type supported.

Course details can be saved seperately so that you can start a new game without having to enter course details.  Course details can also be read from a file saved with the Scores/Save menu option.

The two types of files saved have different extensions.  Score cards are saved with the extension CRD and course details have an extension CRS.  Saved score cards are displayed under the Golfa icon when you install the program from the system screen.


CALCULATING RESULTS

By default the program will only calculate the results by selecting Scores/Calculate from the menu or pressing the hot-key.  If you would like to automatically calculate scores after any change then you can turn Auto Calculation On/Off by selecting Scores/Auto Calculate On/OFF from the menu.  This menu option changes between "Auto Calculate On" and "Auto Calculate Off" depending on the current state.

The word CAL is displayed just under the "Net" heading near the top right-corner of the screen and is on a clear background when Auto Calculate "On" and on a patterned backround when Auto Calculate "Off".


DISPLAYING RESULTS

For some competitions the results may not be able to fit in the space provided on the screen. If this is the case then the results will be displayed as asterisks (**).

In order to see the full results for any player press Psion-R to display a list of players then select a player and press the <Enter> key. A window will then appear with all the results for the selected player.

Press any key to return to the player list. To return to the main screen press the <Esc> key when the player selection list is displayed.


COMPETITION TYPES

For individual or betterball competitions you can select from the following competition types: Medal, Stableford and Bonus Bogey.  The individual scores are calculated along with the betterball scores for A & B vs C & D.  The betterball scores are shown under the competition name near the top right of the screen.

For alliance competitions you can select the following:  Alliance Medal, Alliance Stableford and Alliance Bonus Bogey.

There is a Matchplay competition which is calculated between player A and C and a Skins competition played between 2 to 4 players.

The competition called Handicap is used to calculate scores for handicapping purposes.  Scores are reduced to a net 1 over par where necessary.

A new competition, Amigos, has been added.  This game is a fun game to be played with four players.  Each player tees off and the two closest to the left of the fairay play against the two closest to the right of the fairway.  The score for each team is the (lowest score * 10) + higest score.  If any player scores a nett birdie then the score for the opposing team is (highest score * 10) + lowest score.  The difference between the two scores are 'debited' from each member of the losing team and 'credited' to each member of the winning team.  The whole process starts again on the next hole so that new partners are formed.  Note: the last player teeing off can select his partner by placing his drive to the left or right (if he can!)


ENTERING SCORES

Navigate to the hole and player for which you want to enter a score using the arrow keys.  The cell that you are currently on will be filled in grey.  Press the Enter key or any number key to pop up a dialog box into which you enter the score.  If you pressed a number then this number will be entered in the dialog (Note: a zero will become a one).  Included in the dialog is the option to mark this hole as a blackout.  If the hole is a blackout the actual score you enter will be ignored and the maximum allowed for the hole will be displayed in inverse.  The maximum score is calculated as nett one over par.  Technically blackouts for medal play constitutes a no-return result and are also shown in the results blocks in inverse.  In betterball and alliance competitions blackout scores are ignored when calculating the result unless both (betterball) or all (alliance) players blackout, in which case the worst score is used for the hole result and the overall result is shown in inverse.

You can mark scores for any reason by setting the Mark option to "Yes".  See the skins game for an example of how this is used.


HANDICAPS

For easy calculation of scores plus handicaps must be entered as negative numbers and will be shown as such on the screen.


WARNING: DISCLAIMER BY THE AUTHOR TO THE USER

The Author does not represent or warrant that this software is free of any defect. You may use it at your own risk.  The Author shall not be liable to you for any loss, damage, liability or claim, howsoever and whatsoever arising, whether based on the Author's negligence or not, which you may incur or suffer as a result of your use of this software.
