


	                Splitz  &  Joinz  manual



                            Daniel Pfund


                        September 18, 1995
                    version 1.1 (c)1995 Daniel Pfund



Contents


1  Introduction                                                   1


2  Distribution                                                   2


3  Uses                                                           2


4  Installation                                                   2


5  Memory requirements                                            3


6  Running the program                                            3


7  How the program works                                          3
   7.1  Splitting                                                 3
   7.2  Joining                                                   4


8  Limitations and bugs                                           4


9  Legal stuff                                                    4


10 Author                                                         4


                              Summary

        This file contains all the necessary information to use and install
     Splitz & Joinz .



1    Introduction


Splitz & Joinz is a program designed to split and join text files.  The
program is written in OPL and will only work on a Psion3a.

                                  1

2    Distribution


Splitz & Joinz is now freeware.  This means you can distribute and use it
freely.  The program can be distributed by any electronic mean (anonymous
FTP sites, BBSes, packet radio .  .  .  ) provided the file "SPLITZ.ZIP"
stays intact.  Software distributors can freely distribute this program on
their shareware disks, provided that:


   1.You don't charge more than $5 for the service.

   2.The file "SPLITZ.ZIP" stays intact (see section 4 "Installation" for the
     file's contents).

   3.You don't make any money out of it.


   If you would like to put this program on a CD-ROM, please contact me first
(see section 10 "Author" for my address).



3    Uses


I originally made it to avoid the 40k limit of the inbuilt applications
like Word and OPL.  It will process text files and split them
"intelligently" after a LineFeed (LF) at about the size you specify.  I
used it for big text files I received while I had to use my Psion3a for
packet radio (a radio transmission mode for radio amateurs) while my
Amiga's serial port was defectuous.  You might also want to use it to
split/join large text files if you are writing big articles on your Psion...



4    Installation


You should unzip the file SPLITZ.ZIP and get the following files:


   1.SPLITZ.TXT This file

   2.SPLITZ.DVI This file in LaTeX DVI format

   3.SPLITZ.OPA The program


   All you have to do is copy the file SPLITZ.OPA to the \APP directory
with whatever program you use to copy/move files from/to your Psion.  You
will then have to install the program with the System menu (Apps/Install)
or by pressing Psion-i.  Since the program doesn't use any specific files
(ie:  it is a type $1000 application), you can also rename the file
"SPLITZ.OPA" to "SPLITZ.OPO" and put that file into your RunOPL directory
(usually this is "\OPO".  This will avoid using one more icon on your
System screen and allow you to group all little utilities under one icon.


                                  2

5    Memory requirements


Splitz & Joinz will need only about 3k of your disk space.  In addition,
Splitz & Joinz will need about 28k of free memory to be able to run.  Also,
don't forget that you need space for the output of the file you want to
split/join.



6    Running the program


You will first get a simple menu with 3 possibilities.  The descriptions
are rather self explaining, so make your choice!  Once you have chosen the
"Start" option, you will be prompted with the main dialog where you are
requested to enter useful information.  The first line asks for the source
filename and it's location (Disk A, Internal, Disk B, eventually REM::).
You can use Tab or Control-Tab to get the usual Psion file requesters.  The
third line asks for the destination directory.  The default is "LOC::M\",
although it will only show you "\".  Once again, you can specify which
drive the destination directory should be on.  The fifth line asks you for
the approximate size of the parts.  This is only used if you split a file
of course.  Splitz & Joinz will automatically detect if you want to split
or join a file by looking at the source filename.  If the source file has
an extension of the kind "P0 ?", it will attempt to join the files
previously splitted.  Otherwise it will take the source file and attempt to
split it.  Note that the minimal split value is 8k.  When joining, Splitz &
Joinz will automatically ask you for the new filename extension.  When you
enter it, you do not need to write a "." in the dialog, but only the last
three letters.  The last line of the main dialog asks you if you want to
delete the source file after use.  If you answer yes, Splitz & Joinz will
delete the source file, but only if there were no errors during the process
of splitting/joining.  Once you have entered everything, type "Enter" to
start splitting/joining.  If everything goes well, you will get a dialog
saying "No errors" and eventually another line telling you which files have
been deleted.  If on the other hand, an error appeared during the process
of splitting/joining, you will be informed by a requester and the program
will end without deleting any files.



7    How the program works


7.1   Splitting

The program checks if it can read 8192 bytes (8k) of the source file
without going over the split value (hence the minimal split value of 8k ;
for the sake of speed).  If it can, it reads 8k and writes them out to the
destination file ; otherwise it reads one byte and checks if this character
is a LF.  If it is, it writes it to the destination file and closes it.  It
checks if there are any bytes left in the source file and if yes, creates a
new part.  The process then starts over.



                                  3

7.2   Joining

Joining is much simpler in the way that it takes all the files with the
same name and extensions "P0 ?", starting at 1 and joins them together.
Note that in the main dialog, you do not necessarily need to choose part1,
as it will recognize any part.



8    Limitations and bugs


   o The minimal split value is set to 8k, otherwise the program would be
     somewhat slow.

   o You cannot split a program into more than 9 parts, since the extensions
     are of the kind "P0 ?".

   o No bugs have been found during testing, although I have never tried to
     run the program on a binary file.



9    Legal stuff


Splitz & Joinz is provided "as is".  This means, it does what it does, and
I cannot be held responsable if it crashes your system, or causes any other
dammages. If however you do have a problem with it, please report it to me
and I will try to help you out to fix it.



10     Author


Snail mail:
Daniel Pfund
19, ch. de Tirelonge
CH-1213 Onex
Switzerland


   You can also reach me via E-Mail (preferred !):  "Pfund@uni2a.unige.ch"
or if this address doesn't work any more (in a couple of years) you can
still write to me at:  "hb9vbc@pccr01.cern.ch".  (Note the zero, not an o!)
   [End of Splitz & Joinz documentation]


                                  4
