==FlWorld - v2.5c - D. Rushall, 1996, 1998==

--Introduction--

This document gives brief installation and usage instructions for the
FlWorld application. Please read this document fully before copying
any of these files on to you Psion.

FlWorld is an accompiament to the standard World application on
Psion Series 3a/3c and Acorn Pocketbook II machines. Unlike World,
it allows the time to be displayed in multiple cities simultaneously
and features graphical moon-phase and day/night displays.

It's features include:

  o  Display current time and date in up to six cities simultaneously.

  o  Three display modes, including "World time-zone map"

  o  Graphical moon-phase and optional day/night shading on world map
     display.

  o  Sun rise and set times, and distance from Home city.

  o  Cities chosen from World application database, both standard and
     user-defined.

  o  `Background' display drawing allows user interaction without
     waiting for refreshes to complete.


--Conditions of Use--

FlWorld is Freeware and copyright. It is _not_ public domain.

You are permitted to copy, distribute and make use of FlWorld
provided you adher to the following conditions:

  o  Use is at your own risk. The author is will not be held
     responsible if anything goes wrong. As always when installing
     and sampling freeware applications, please make sure the data
     on your machine is backed up and the data is safe before you
     begin.

  o  FlWorld is supplied `as-is'. Whilst I have attempted to iron out
     any problems in this software there is no guarantee than any that
     remain will be fixed in the future.

  o  FlWorld may be freely used and distributed on a non-profit making
     basis, provided all, and only, the files listed below are
     distributed, unchanged.


--Installation--

The FlWorld distribution contains the following files:

     Flworld.opa    -  main program module.
     Flworld.mnp   \
     Flworld.znm    Ý
     Flworld.sp1    Ý- resource files.
     Flworld.sp2    Ý
     Flworld.sp3   /
     Flworld.hlp    -  on-line help.
     Flutils.fl0    -  shared application library.
     Flworld.txt    -  this documentation file.
     Readme.txt     -  brief introduction.

To install the application, create a \APP\FLWORLD\ directory on
either the Internal (M:) drive, or an SSD (A: or B:).

Copy the Flworld.opa program module to \APP\ and all other files,
except the *.txt files, to \APP\FLWORLD\.

Finally, install the Flworld.opa application on the System screen.

For details of how to create directories, copy the files to them and
to install applications on the System screen, please consult your
Psion manual.

-Advanced installation notes-

You need only follow the above instructions to install FlWorld. The
following notes are for experienced users and may be safely ignored
if you are unsure about them.

  o  The on-line help file, `Flworld.hlp' is optional and may be
     removed from \APP\FLWORLD\ by experienced users to save a little
     disk space.

  o  If you use one of my other applications, such as Solun, you may
     already have a copy of the file Flutils.fl0 installed on your
     machine. This is a shared application library and you need only
     have one copy installed, to save space.

     If you wish to share Flutils.fl0, you must install it into \OPO\,
     instead of \APP\FLWORLD\ - but you must make sure you keep the
     latest version you have. If an application cannot find a version
     at the level it requires, or later, and error message is
     displayed and the application will not run. To display the
     version of Flutils.fl0 is which either run the file from the
     RunOpo icon, or view the beginning of the file (eg. use the
     DOS command, "TYPE FLUTILS.FL0").

     Users of Solun v3.0 should note that FlWorld requires a newer
     version of Flutils, supplied in this distribution.


--Using FlWorld--

To start FlWorld, move the highlight to the FlWorld icon on the
System screen, and press <Enter>.

If this is the first time you start FlWorld, a default settings file
will be created, with the name \APP\FLWORLD\Flworld.hcl. A dialog
then appears asking for some initial settings. For now, accept the
defaults by pressing <Enter>. The main FlWorld display will now
appear.

When the main display appears, you can select options, such as the
<Menu> and <Help> keys. The <Diamond> key is used to switch between
the display modes, such as "Large clocks" and "World time-zone map".

Other useful keys are <C> to select new cities, <Q> for display
preferences and <Tab> to switch between cities on the World map
display.

When you choose the Exit option from the menu, FlWorld automatically
saves your current settings in the open settings file. When you next
start FlWorld you old settings will be used.

If you wish, you can create multiple set-up files, with different
selections of cities and display options. To do this, use the New
option on the File menu. You can also create new settings files from
the System screen. By default, files are created with names
matching \APP\FLWORLD\*.hcl and appear under the FlWorld icon on the
System screen.

For more information about the various options, please consult the
on-line help from within the FlWorld appplication. Press the <Help>
key, or select the Help option from the menu.


--Troubleshooting--

FlWorld is relatively simple to use, however there are a couple of
little quirks that deserve a mention:

  o  When in the background, FlWorld closes it's windows to save
     memory. However, this means that when you switch back to FlWorld
     after starting another application (or copying a file to the
     internal drive) there is a chance that there is no-longer enough
     memory for all the display windows to be reopened.

     If this happens, FlWorld will stop drawing the display and
     flash a message. If you wish to see the rest of the display,
     you must release some more memory, perhaps by closing another
     application.

  o  FlWorld requires around 40K of free process memory to start-up
     and complete the initial display. If there is not enough initial
     memory then FlWorld will complain that there is no system
     memory and exit immediately. If this happens you should close
     another application before you try again.

     Ironically this can cause confusion on the larger, 1M and 2M
     machines where one would think there is plenty of memory. It must
     be remembered that these machines have only a maximum of 512K
     available to processes. (For example, if a 2MB (2048KB) machine
     reports that 1024KB is being used by the internal RAM disk, and
     that there is 520KB free memory then FlWorld cannot run! The
     memory already being used by processes is 2048-(1024+520)=504KB
     which means there is only really 512KB-504KB=8KB left for
     processes, which is clearly less than 40KB.)

  o  When first started, FlWorld selects six cities from the World
     database. Due to differences in the spelling of city names
     between languages, there is a chance that FlWorld will fail to
     find all the cities on non-English machines.

     If this happens, you will be asked for a valid city name. Your
     selection will then be saved when you exit FlWorld, so the
     problem should not occur again.


--And Finally--

If you wish to report a problem or have any other comments
or suggestions then please contact me at:

    dave@piecafe.demon.co.uk

Internet users may also like to visit my WWW site, at:

    http://www.piecafe.demon.co.uk/dave/

David Rushall, January 1998
