Celsius
for Psion Series 5/5mx and Ericsson MC218 handheld computers.
Version 1.2  17th January 1999
Copyright (C) 1998-1999 Philip Bister
Introduction.
Celsius is a small utility simply for converting between Centigrade and Fahrenheit temperatures.
Celsius has a 'calculator style' graphical interface and is operated entirely with the pen pointer.
As this application takes very little space,  I am sure you will find it a useful utility to have installed on your EPOC32 handheld computer.
Celsius is so easy to use, no help files are necessary.

About Celsius.
The Centigrade scale was first constructed by Swedish astronomer Anders Celsius (1701-44) in which the freezing point of water is zero and the boiling point of water is 100 degrees.
The Centigrade scale is now the preferred scale and is used throughout most of the world.

Copyright.
Celsius is Copyright © 1998-1999 Philip Bister.  All rights reserved.  Reverse engineering/translation prohibited.

Unsupported freeware.
This program is released as unsupported freeware.  The author regrets that he cannot enter into correspondence and therefore a contact address is not given.  However, this is not to say that updated versions would not be released from time to time via the 3-Lib library.

Distribution.
This version is freeware and may be distributed by any means, provided all of the documentation and any associated files are included and unaltered.

Disclaimer.
This software is supplied 'as is'.  Every effort has been made to ensure that the application is free from errors.  However, no software author can guarantee it.  The author takes no responsibility as to the suitability of this products intended purpose, or for the accuracy of the data contained within it, or for any consequences which may occur as a result of a malfunction of this software. You must use this software at your own risk.

Suitable EPOC machines.
Celsius is suitable to run on the following EPOC machines.
Psion Series 5 and Series 5mx
Ericsson MC218

Installation.
The Celsius folder should contain the following files:
Celsius.txt		This text file
Celsius.app		Application file
Celsius.aif		Application information file
Just copy the Celsius folder into a \system\apps  folder on any drive.  The application should then appear on the extras bar.  To start the application, turn on the extras bar by tapping the Extras icon, and then tap on the Celsius icon..

In use.
The application has a calculator style graphical interface and is operated entirely by the pen pointer.
To convert a temperature, tap the number of °F or °C on the key pad.  The display above the key pad shows the numbers being tapped in.  If you make a mistake, tap C and start again.
If you want to convert your entry to Fahrenheit, tap the convert to Fahrenheit button, and the display will show your entry in °F.
Celsius remembers your entry until another number is tapped out on the key pad.  So, if you tapped the wrong 'convert to' button, just tap the correct one.
The About button gives information about this application.
The Exit button will close the application. 