                           CleanOPL

                           Version 1.3

                           Copyright: Marcel Uithoof, 1996
                           All rights reserved.



1.  INTRODUCTION


1.1 What is CleanOPL?

    CleanOPL is a tool for developers of OPL-programs for the Psion 3A.
    Keywords, procedures, variables and labels in any OPL source file
    will be given the correct case. There is also the possibility to
    give an OPL source file the correct indentation.


1.2 Decide-Ware

    CleanOPL is Decide-Ware. This means that the runtime program is
    hereby released to the public domain. The sources however are not
    released to the public domain.
    If you like the program and use it on a regular basis, it would
    be appreciated if you send small tokens to the author
    (whose address can be found at the bottom of this file) just to
    encourage him to develop the program furthermore and add more
    options to the program.
    But as the name implies, the decision is up to you.


1.3 Installation

    The CleanOPL program package should contain the following files:
      CLEANOPL.OPA   The program file
      CLEANOPL.TXT   This text file

    These files should be installed in the following directories:
      CLEANOPL.OPA   in \APP\ on any drive
      CLEANOPL.TXT   in \WRD\ on any drive (optional)

    The file CLEANOPL.TXT is not necessary for the program to run.
    Install the file CLEANOPL.OPA via Psion-I
    After installation and running the program, the following file
    will automatically be created:
      CLEANOPL.CFG   in M:\OPD\ (always on the internal disk)
    This file will contain the configuration options.

    In earlier versions the file CLEANOPL.ODB was distributed as
    well. This file is not necessary anymore. If it is installed
    on the Psion, the file will automatically be deleted when
    the new CleanOPL program is run.


1.4 Memory Requirements

    CleanOPL requires about 15K of disk space for installation and
    a minimum of 52K is required to run the program.
    When running CleanOPL, a complete copy of the OPL source file
    which is processed will be created on disk, so this memory space
    should also be available.


1.5 The legal stuff

    The  author and distributor shall not be liable for any loss of
    data or damage arising from the use of this software, either
    direct or indirect. This  software is provided as is, without
    any warranty of any kind.
    The runtime program is released as decide-ware, but the
    sources and the name CleanOPL are protected by copyright.



2.  The Program


2.1 Important

    Although the program has been tested extensively and everything
    seems to be ok, there is always a change that data could be
    damaged.
    Therefore, always backup your data before using this program.


2.2 Why should I use CleanOPL

    Have you ever written an OPL program where the case of
    keywords, procedure-names and variables was not correct
    and where the wrong indentation was used.
    Or ever modified your code with IF..ENDIF structures and
    added spaces or tabs till your fingers went blue.
    Yes, than CleanOPL can be the answer.


2.3 When to use CleanOPL

    CleanOPL was developed to work with OPL source files which
    translate ok in the PROGRAM application. It will work on
    OPL source files which did not translate ok, but probably
    the incorrect case and/or indentation will be applied for
    the line(s) where the error(s) occurred.
    The maximum line length is limited to 255 characters, however
    when indentation is applied it will be limited to 254 characters
    This means that if an original line is 254 or 255 characters
    without leading spaces or tabs, no indentation will be added by
    CleanOPL, but the source line will kept intact.


2.4 Using CleanOPL

    When you start the application a dialog will be presented to
    you with the following options:

             ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
             ³            CleanOPL v1.3         ³
             ÃÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ´
             ³úFile: Name   ????????            ³
             ³ú      Disk   Internal            ³
             ³úIndentation  Tabs                ³
             ³úKeywords     Psion rules         ³
             ³úProcedures   Initial caps        ³
             ³úVariables    Lowercase           ³
             ³úLabels       Lowercase           ³
             ³úOdometer     10                  ³
             ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ

    úFile: Name / Disk
      This is a standard file selector where you can select the
      OPL source file to process.

    úIndentation
      Here you can choose how the file will be indented
      Choices are:
        Leave        The current indentation will be left intact.
        None         No indentation will be used. All lines will be
                     left-aligned.
        1 Space      1 Space will be used for indentation.
        2 Spaces     2 Spaces will be used for indentation.
        3 Spaces     3 Spaces will be used for indentation.
        4 Spaces     4 Spaces will be used for indentation.
        Tabs         Tabs will be used for indentation

    úKeywords
      Here you can choose the case of the Psion keywords.
      Choices are:
        Leave         Does not change the case of keywords.
        Uppercase     Keywords will be converted to upper case.
                      (example: 'dinit' will be converted to 'DINIT')
        Lowercase     Keywords will be converted to lower case.
                      (example: 'DINIT' will be converted to 'dinit')
        Initial caps  Keywords will be converted to first letter
                      in upper case and the rest in lower case.
                      (example: 'dINIT' will be converted to 'Dinit')
        Psion rules   Keywords will be converted to the case as
                      mentioned in the Psion programming manual.
                      (example: 'dinit' will be converted to 'dINIT'
                                'print' will be converted to 'PRINT')

    úProcedures
      Here you can choose the case of the procedure names.
      Choices are:
        Leave         Does not change the case of procedure names.
        Uppercase     Procedure names will be converted to upper case.
        Lowercase     Procedure names will be converted to lower case.
        Initial caps  Procedure names will be converted to first letter
                      in upper case and the rest in lower case.

    úVariables
      Here you can choose the case of the variable names.
      Choices are:
        Leave         Does not change the case of variable names.
        Uppercase     Variable names will be converted to upper case.
        Lowercase     Variable names will be converted to lower case.
        Initial caps  Variable names will be converted to first letter
                      in upper case and the rest in lower case.

    úLabels
      Here you can choose the case of the labels.
      Choices are:
        Leave         Does not change the case of labels.
        Uppercase     Labels will be converted to upper case.
        Lowercase     Labels will be converted to lower case.
        Initial caps  Labels will be converted to first letter
                      in upper case and the rest in lower case.

    úOdometer
      Here you can specify the interval with which the progress indicator
      is displayed 'xxx lines processed'.
      The higher this number, the faster this program will run.


    Pressing 'ENTER' will start the cleanup process. During processing
    a progress indicator is shown in the bottom right corner. During
    processing 'ESC' will interrupt and return you to the dialog.
    Pressing 'ESC' while in the dialog will stop the program.


2.5 Notes on processing

      ş APPlications names are not processed and left intact.
      ş Database logical names are always converted to upper case.


2.6 When something goes wrong.

    CleanOPL will first convert your OPL source file to a temporary
    file 'M:\OPL\CLEANOPL.$$$'. When processing is complete this
    temporary file will be copied over the original source file.
    Only when no error occurred during copying, this temporary file
    will be deleted. So if there goes something wrong, probably a
    copy of your source file is still on disk as 'M:\OPL\CLEANOPL.$$$'



3.  Remarks and suggestions

    If you have any remarks or suggestions please let me know about it.
    Send them to me. My address can be found at the end of this file.



4.  Limitations and outstanding items

    None



5.  Revision History

    Version 1.3   26-10-96
      ş Added an adjustable odometer.
        When this is set to 10 instead of the pre-defined value of 1
        in version 1.2 a speed increase of 30% will be achieved.

    Version 1.2   03-10-96
      ş Searching for keywords is now hardcoded instead of finding them
        in a table. This gives a speed increase of about 55 %

    Version 1.1   13-08-96
      ş Every second keyword in a line, before a colon occurred,
        was not recognized. (Fixed)
      ş Database logical names with letters above 'D' before the field
        name were recognized as correct. (Fixed)

    Version 1.0   10-08-96
      ş First public release



6. The Author

      Marcel Uithoof
      Kinkelenburg 194
      3328 AK Dordrecht
      The Netherlands

      or email

      uithoof@globalxs.nl
