                               JBStopGo
                            Version 1.9.2
                           (c)JBSoft 1992-8

                                 Ё
                                 цд©
                               юбады
                                юд©
                                дды


Overview
--------
JBStopGo is a program to automate the closing and reopening of your
applications when preparing to backup to the main computer. It will
close all running programs and start the Link or, if the Link is
already running, will close the Link and restart the programs closed
beforehand. If closing down the programs you will end up in Time as
this can speed up the file transfer process when using RCOM/RBACK
because the screen does not have to keep updating its file list (which
it does every time a file is copied).

If the Link isn't connected then things will still closedown and re-
open and attempt to set the Link. To avoid the Link from starting the
enclosed JBSGL.INI file should be installed to M:\OPD\ and this will
stop the Link from running (although the program will still know if it
is on a closedown cycle or a startup cycle).

If a program fails to respond to the Close command then, after 15
seconds, a message will appear on the screen - you have the choice of
leaving the program to try to close down the application or, if you
press a key, the program will be killed instantly although you would
lose any data that would normally be saved when closing. If you decide
you don't wish to close the offending program then you will have to
escape from JBStopGo (use Psion-Esc) and use JBSGGet to inhibit the
closure.

N.B. The program will close down everything so, if you have sensitive
data that must be saved it would be a good precaution to do a manual
save first. Most OPL programs do not answer to the System screen
closedown with a save - they just terminate instantly.

The program creates a small data file in the root directory of the
Internal drive called AOPEN.DAT (just to explain why this file
suddenly appears).

N.B. It is important that the Link is started and stopped by my
program as it uses the Link status to decide what to do - if the Link
is running and you wish to backup then you must close the link before
running JBStopGo. If you run the program with the Link unplugged then
the programs will be closed down but the Link will still attempt to
start. There is also JBGO.OPO (included in the ZIP) which will restart
the closed applications. This small program does not switch off the
Link so it should not be used as a substitute for JBStopGo but just to
recover a situation.

Thanks
------
Thank you to Eberhard Rompf for his invaluable assistance in making
this program work on foreign models of the Series 3c.

Release History
---------------
1.0     First public release (previous versions were hard-coded for my
        system.

1.1     Fixed a problem with SYS$RPCS being opened up when in Start
        mode.
        Now ends up in Time after closing down the applications to
        speed up the file transfer.
1.2     Now altered so that applications can be left open (use JBSGGet
        to set this up).
1.3     If the 3-Link isn't plugged in then an error is shown but it
        isn't fatal anymore.
1.3b    Allowed more time for closedowns to take account of very large
        programs saving their data.
1.4     Improved closing and re-opening applications erring on the
        side of caution.
1.5     Allowed closedown and re-starting of files without the Link
        attached.
        Fixed problem with attempt to open non-closed apps.
1.6     Fixed problem with RCOM already started giving an error on
        screen.
1.7     Altered operation so that it works with an S3c.
1.7c    Fixed a problem with the S3a giving Panic errors when the
        3Link not connected.
1.8     Allows usage without a Link connected and without warnings
        appearing.
1.8a    Fix to cure closing Agenda Memos.
1.9     Speeded up the closedown of applications without compromising
        data.
1.9.1   Added a completion dialog so that users know when the program
        has finished.
1.9.1a  Cured a problem with ignored list created with JBSGGet.
1.9.2   Now works with the S3mx at 115200 baud.


Contact
-------
John Boyce
  CompuServe:
100014,1240
         CIX:
jboyce
    Internet:
john@jbsoft.c
ix.co.uk