3T, Simple File Managers for Psion Series 3 and 3a.

3T is the first application I wrote for my Series 3a back in September 1993.
Then along came a host of fully featured applications like 3aUtils, etc.,
so I forgot about 3T.
Recently the Flash SSD which holds my usual bits and bobs became rather 
full, so I needed to make some space, hence the resurrection of 3T.

3T is a smallish application which handles most normal day-to-day file
activities.  It can view, copy, move, and delete files, make new directories 
and remove unwanted ones.  It works on single files, or groups of tagged 
files.  Up to 39 files are displayed at once, although all files in the ROM
are accessible.  

Also in the archive is 3TC.OPA, which is a Series 3 version of 3T.  The
operation is similar to that described below, but there are a few 
differences, e.g. only 24 files are displayed, files are tagged with a dot
after the name.

Usage:

Copy 3T.OPA to an \APP\ directory, install and run in the usual way.

The display shows 3 windows.  The top window shows the full name, path
and size of the file (or directory) highlighted in the lower window.
The status window shows the media type (ROM, RAM, Flash), the space 
used in bytes, and the space free.

The lower window shows up to 39 files in the current directory.  As you 
press the arrow keys, each item is highlighted in turn.

The keys:

The following can be pressed for actions on highlighted files.

C  Copy a file.  A dialog appears, enabling you to choose a new drive and/or
   directory to copy the file to.
   
D  Delete a file or directory.  A dialog asking for confirmation appears.
   If you delete a directory containing files, the files are deleted also.

L  Log a new drive.  Carry out action on a different drive.  Initiall the
   contents of the 'default' drive are displayed.

M  Move a file.  Files can be moved from one location to another.  If any
   files are not copied for some reason, those files will not be deleted.
   
R  Rename a file.  This renames a file.  You cannot move its directory by 
   renaming - use the M key if this is desired.

T  Tag a file.  This tags files for actions on groups of files.  The C, D and
   M commands detect when files have been tagged.  When all files have been
   'actioned', the tags are cleared.  Tagged files are shown in italics on 
   the Series 3a, and marked with a spot on the Series 3.
   
U  Untag a file.  Removes a 'tag' from a file.

V  Views a file.  This is a limited facility which dumps files to the main
   window.  You can scroll down the file by pressing DownArrow.  Any other
   key returns to the file list.  If the file ends .ASC, .CAP, .DOC, .TXT 
   or .OPL, then the file is shown in non-wordwrapped text format.  
   Otherwise it is wrapped every 51 bytes.

+  Makes a new directory.  This works only when a directory is
   highlighted.  If the name typed in is preceded by a backslash, it
   is placed in the root, otherwise it is placed in the highlighted
   directory.  (The full path is displayed before the new directory
   is created - you can abort here!)

X  or Psion-X Exits from 3T

Escape     Moves to parent of current directory.

Enter     i)  Shows file size, date, attributes, free space (3TC only).
         ii)  Moves to the highlighted directory.
        iii)  If '<Root>' is highlighted, moves to parent directory.
     

Limitations

3T cannot handle directories more than 9 layers deep!
You cannot rename while copying.  This is easily done from the system screen
anyway.
You can view only up to 39 files on the screen.  While 3T does not scroll if
there are more, their names will appear in the top window, and all actions
still work on them.
Most errors have been trapped (I think), but there is bound to be some case
where I goofed.

Release details

3T was written for my personal use.  I have updated it to remove most causes
of failure, and to allow tagged operations.  The original 1993 version was
only 3k in size, but was quicker.  I have released this now as it is still
very small compared with the alternatives, and others may find it useful if
they are a bit short of space.  It is not a marvel of programming, but does
95% of the jobs I need.

You can copy and distribute 3T freely.  It has been translated after size
reduction with AKA, so if you want the source code (OPL) drop me a line to
hzk@cix.compulink.co.uk and I will be happy to send it on to you.

Roger Muggleton.
hzk@cix.compulink.co.uk


UPDATES
-------

25th February, 1995

Psion-V  View file facility added.
Fixed bug on renaming file without extension.
File list build up is now visible.


26th February, 1995

Series 3 version derived from above.


3rd March, 1995

LeftArrow, RightArrow now work.
Untag moves down like Tag.
Cosmetic changes to <dir>, <root> and <end> symbols.
  Series 3 version only:
Tag symbol now in correct column!
<dir> moved to correct position.
Free space now on file info dialog.


25th March, 1995

New status window showing Media, Free and Used.
Improvement to Make Directory option.
Grey plane removed - tagged files now shown in italics.  This means that
3T uses about 7k less memory when running (about 29k needed).
Viewed text no longer overwrites border.

14th April, 1995

Trap to stop text file lines longer than 255 chars from causing a read
abort when viewing.
If there is more that 20k memory available when 3t is running, part
of the program is cached, causing faster operation.  This increases
memory requirement by about 3k when caching is active.
