	BENCRYPT v. 1.0
	by Novateh May 2001

1. USAGE
Using Bencrypt is fairly easy. Files are encrypted by tapping on the Encr.
Icon and decrypted by tapping on the icon of the encrypted file (or by using
Decr. Icon). Maximum encryption is 128 bits (depending on the password
length).

2. ENCRYPTION
Encrypt file by tapping on the Encr. Icon or selecting Encrypt from the menu. Shortcut key is Ctrl+c. 
You can select more files by using Next button in the file select dialog. To select the whole directory use Directory button.
The selected files or directories are shown in the upper left window.
For every file you can select two options:
* Start connected program
* Delete file after encryption
If the first option is selected and program can find connected program (e.g. for Word document, Word program) it will start it after decryption.
If the second option is selected the program will delete source file after encryption. The source file will also be deleted after usage with connected program.
While file is encrypted the info about file is shown in the upper right window. 
The whole process of the encryption can be followed in the lower window.
NOTE: % is added to the name of the encrypted file.

3. DECRYPTION
File is decrypted simply by tapping on it. Alternatively you can start the program and decrypt file by tapping Decr. icon (choosing Decrypt from the menu).

4. REGISTER
This is a shareware program. If you find it useful please register it (only 10 USD). This way you will help us in developement of the  new programs.

5.DISCLAIMER
This is a shareware program.
Novateh and their representative are not responsible for any direct, indirect, special, consequential damage (including damages for loss of business profits, loss of data, ...) to you, your computer or any device while installing, using, misusing, de-installing or inability to use or install this product. 
If you don't agree with this disclaimer, please deinstall the program.

6. OTHER
If you are interested in other programs we develop, visit our web site:
http://www.novateh.com
Our e-mail address is: info@novateh.com

