QuickP for EPOC32 Version 3.0
(C) Eric Sebban 1998-1999
ericson@palmscape.com
http://www.palmscape.com or http://perso.club-internet.fr/ericson

Thanks for trying QuickP for EPOC32


Installing QuickP :
--------------------
1. Install AGENDA2.OPX, launch PsiWin Installer and select AGENDA2.SIS
2. Install APPINFO.OPX, launch PsiWin Installer and select APPINFO.SIS
3. Install PSCAPE.OPO,  launch PsiWin Installer and select PSCAPE.SIS
4. Make sure you have access to the system directory.
   You can enable this in the system preferences using
   CTRL+K. Tick 'Show "System" directory'
5. Create a new directory: \system\apps\QuickP on
   drive C: or D:
6. Copy all the files to this new directory.
7. The program should now be visible in the extras bar.
8. Start the program
9. Read the help file.

For previous QuickP users :
-----------------------------------
QuickP 3.0 database has a different format from previous version of QuickP,
to migrate from your older QuickP database to 3.0, please use
CONVERT.OPO program. Install and run it on the disk.

Conversion instructions :

For registered users, please don't forget your username and password,
Note it on a paper.

1) Delete QuickP.INI in C:\SYSTEM\APPS\QUICKP
2) Launch QuickP 3.0
3) Create a new empty file with QuickP 3.0
4) Quit QuickP 3.0
5) Launch Convert.opo
6) Select previous version of QuickP, enter your old QuickP Database file name,
   enter the new QuickP Database file name, click Enter
7) Reopen QuickP 3.0, you must retrieve your old datas in the 
   new database format.

Registration method :
---------------------

QuickP is Shareware, there is no nag screen, unregistered users can
create only 2 projects environnements and 15 items on each lists per project.
This software has take time to develop, so please register.

To register contact me at ericson@palmscape.com or ericson@club-internet.fr 
or http://www.palmscape.com
see my web home page for releases at http://perso.club-internet.fr/ericson

Special Thanks :
----------------

Thanks to Andy Clarkson (PLAN5) for his Agenda2.SIS and AppInfo.sis include in this package.
http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/andyc

Legal stuff:
------------
Notice to users: Carefully read the following legal agreement.
Use of the software provided with this agreement (the "software") constitutes 
your acceptance of these terms. If you do not agree to the terms of this agreement, 
promptly remove the software together with all copies from your computer. 
User's use of this Software is conditioned upon compliance by user with the terms of 
this agreement.

The software is protected by copyright law and international treaty provisions. 
You acknowledge that no title to the intellectual property in the software is transferred 
to you. You further acknowledge that title and full ownership rights to the software will
remain the exclusive property of Eric Sebban, and you will not acquire any rights to the 
software except as expressly set forth in this license. You agree that any copies of the 
software will contain the same proprietary notices which appear on and in the software.

We do not warrant that the software is error free. We disclaim all other warranties with 
respect to the software, either express or implied, including, but not limited to, implied 
warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose and non-infringement of 
third party rights.

There is no liability for consequential damages. In no event shall we or our suppliers 
be liable to you for any consequential, special, incidental or indirect damages of any kind
arising out of the delivery, performance or use of the software, even if we have been 
advised of the possibility of such damages. In no event will our liability for any claim,
whether in contract, or any other theory of liability, exceed the license fee paid by you.

