Psion Utils (c)1995 PROTRONICS USA 404-351-1055 CompuServe 71021,1544

Flash! - All Series 3 users can now use their Psion to dial the phone

Dialer is a handy utility that will save you precious time when looking
up numbers and dialing the phone. It works by searching all data files 
(unlimited) for a partial match and dials using the speaker or a modem,
without ever opening the database app. Profiles can be set up for home,
office, & travel with local, long distance, & calling card prefixes & 
suffixes. Local area codes are stripped automatically eliminating the
need to enter numbers twice for long distance vs. local calling. American
users no longer need two entries for each number in their database.

Used in combination with Tom Doblin's Macro System, you can press Help
from within any Psion App and press 2-9 for SpeedDial, F to Find or Z
to check your voice mail. Dialer is a One-Touch Psion app. 

Installation Notes

File         Directory      Description
-----------  -------------  ---------------
DIALER.OPO   \OPO\          Executable
DIALER.MCR   \MACRO\MCR\    Install in Tom Doblins Macro system (optional)
DIALER.MCO   \MACRO\MCO\    Remaps Help key to running Dialer (optional)
DIALER.DBF   \OPD\          Setup info & Profiles
DIALER.HLP   \OPD\          Help (press H, optional)
PHONELOG.TXT \OPD\          Call log (created automatically)
*.SPK        \OPD\          Numbers 0-9 for voice playback (S3A, optional)
*.DBF        \DAT\          Your Data files (defaults to Internal drive)

If you don't use the Macro System, from the System screen, press Psion-A 
while Dialer.Opo is highlighted, set Modifier to None, and Button to Time. 
Leave Dialer running in background and press Time to switch to it. If you 
have more than one .Opo loaded, press Time to cycle between them.

Profile Notes

Dialing profiles are stored in \OPD\DIALER.DBF and include sample profiles
for home, office, and away. Default Profile is stored in ?SETUP record.
Dialer ignores the settings in the System screen and uses its own setup.

Dialer Profile Description:
Use Modem/Spkr/Voice:	Changes dialing method to Modem/Speaker/Voice/None
Local Area Code:	Local area code(s)  i.e. 404-,770-
			If your Data file uses (404)  or 404. make sure it 
			matches your entries exactly. If you have duplicates
			for local/long distance, you can now delete the local
			number. Dialer will dtrip the code automatically.
Local Calls Need AC:	If local calls require the area code without the long
			distance prefix, 1-, set this to Yes. This is common
			in cities with multiple area codes.
Local Access Prefix:	If your office requires a 9, to dial out or *70 to
			turn off Call Waiting. This can be temporarily disabled
			by pressing P from Dialer.
Long Distance Prefix:	The prefix used if dialing a non-local number
Long Distance Suffix:	Some companies require a special code after dialing
Calling Card Prefix:	Include all dialout codes as when On, this overrides all
			other prefixes.
Calling Card Suffix:	Use a , for a one second pause, or, if using 3FAX, a W to
			wait for the next tone.
Voice Mail Access:	Include all dialout codes when entering codes and passwords
			to check your Voice Mail by pressing Z.

If you make changes to a profile you must reopen it, O, to load your changes.
If you make changes to Setup, SpeedDial, or Call List, exit Dialer & restart.

Setup Notes

?SETUP
-                   Numeric separator (needed to calculate long distance codes)
\dat\*.dbf          Databases to include (set to \DAT\DATA.DBF to speed search)
1st                 1st - searches fields 1 & 2  All - searches top 10 fields
AT EOQ1S11=60       Modem init string
3Fax                Type of modem being used to dial (3Fax/Hayes)
Home,Work,Fax,Car,Page   Field titles in database (requires  symbol)
Home - Atlanta      Default profile name
Log                 All/Log/Note/Edit/Both/None
                    All - Logs all calls to \OPD\PHONELOG.TXT
                    Log - Only logs calls from "To Dial" list
                    Note - Logs all calls and stamps result
                    Edit - Opens record in data file automatically
                    Both - Opens record in data file & logs all calls

Database Notes

We recommend the following format for entering records in the database.
Fields labels must have a telephone symbol, space, and description. The
descriptions used by Dialer are Home, Work, Fax, Car, and Page.
Sample entry:
  Name:  Walker, Steve
 Work:  404-555-1212,,,123   Also dials extension 123 after a 3 second pause
 Home:  770-999-9990

If you have created two Work #s in your database (by pressing Shift-Enter),
Dialer will only Dial the 1st one. The exception is if you select "List" as
the dial location. Say you have a list of movie theatres stored together as
one record in your database (just ignore field names). Type in the theatre
name, select "List" in the Where box, and press enter.

Sample entry:
   Name:  Movie Theatres
  Work:  816-4262 AMC
  Home:  248-0624 Odeon
Address:  451-4570 Drive-in
  Notes:  800-233-0338 Lenox

This is so you can group similar numbers in one record: Medical, Banking,
Utilities, Computing, BBSs, Air Travel, Ground Travel, Security, Shopping,
Hotels, Emergencies, Restaurants, Library, Mail, Movies, News, Sports, etc.

Usage Notes

Dialer defaults to the work # between the hours of 8 and 6 and to the home #
on weekends and after hours. When using the speaker, hold the Psion 1 inch
away from the phone mouthpiece. It also work by placing the Psion on a soft
mat and holding the mouthpiece 1 inch over the keyboard. Dialer can send the
following touch tone codes: 123456789*0#. ()-+ and <space> are ignored. A
comma will issue a 1 second pause. W (modem dialing only) will wait for a
second dial tone before continuing. i.e. 9,950-1022W0-404-351-1055W407#

If you press N for Next after SpeedDialing a number, the full record will be
found if it exists in the database.

European users take note. Dialer senses long distance numbers, adding the
appropriate prefix and suffix, by counting the number of numeric separators.
Europeans often use a space or a period while Americans use a dash. If a
number has more than one separator, it is considered a long distance number,
unless the area code matches local area codes specified in ?SETUP.
U.S. Example: If your local area codes are 404- and 770-
  210-555-1111 is long distance
     555-12-12 is long distance
1-404-555-1212 is long distance and will add another 1-
  404-555-1212 is local
European Example: If your local area code is 331.
  331.5555.12.12 is long distance
   331.5555.1212 is local
    33.5555.1212 is long distance
       5555.1212 is local

To dial international numbers, create a profile called International, and
set Long Distance prefix to 011- (etc). Leave your local area codes unchanged
so you can still dial local numbers while in international mode. If enough
users register, Protronics will release a European version.

Modem Notes

The Series 3, which can't create DTMF signals, can now use a modem to dial.
If you use a fax/modem after using the modem to place a call, be sure
you software issues an "ATZ" to initialize the modem. If this fails, 
try sending an "AT E1 Q0". When connecting a new modem to the Psion be
sure you have a null modem connector between the 3Link and your modem.
To adjust the speed at which the modem dials, adjust Delay time in the
System Dial settings.

Command Notes

Key	Description - CAPS indicate a default
---	-----------
 A	About
	Displays info about Dialer & shows current Profile

 C	Calling Card on/OFF 
	Be sure to set up calling card # in each profile by pressing Q
	When On, calling card overrides all prefixes so include them in
	your cc codes.

 D	Dial/Callback List
	Esc aborts Enter saves/dials
	Note: pressing Esc will not save data, Enter will save
	Enter names and/or numbers of people you wish to call.
	Highlight entry to dial and press Enter
	Enter on blank line saves but does not dial

 E	Edit last contact dialed
	Opens Data to last contact dialed

 F	Find contact & dial

 G	Find next & dial

 H	Open DIALER.HLP in editor

 I	Inclusive search on/OFF
	Find searches 1st & 2nd fields (usually Company & Name) when
	inclusive off. When on, it searches ten fields & is slower.

 L	Open phone log search & view
	View and search the history of your calls

 M	Modem
	Selects modem to dial telephone

 N	New Record
	Adds a new record to most recent data file used

 O	Open Profile
	Select the profile to use for calling
	Press Q to edit details about a Profile in Data
	where you can add/change/delete.

 P	Prefix ON/off
	Turns the dialing prefix on or off

 Q	Open DIALER.DBF and go to Setup (see Setup Notes/Profile Notes)
	This file contains your profiles, dialer config, speed dial
	codes, and callback list. Press Esc twice and then Enter to
	browse through each record. Field labels correspond only to
	profiles and not to ?SETUP. See Users Guide or DIALER.TXT for 
	more info on how to use the Data app.

 R	Redial last number called

 S	Speaker
	Selects modem to dial telephone
 
 U	Manual Dial
	Allows U to manually dial the phone

 V	Voice
	Selects voice to speak number aloud

 W	Where to call
	As Open Profile lets you select the origin of
	your call (car/home/office/etc) changing your
	prefixes & suffixes, Where lets you select the
	destination of your call (home/work/fax/car/
	pager/list) affected the number dialed. This
	option can be changed temporary under Find.

 X	eXits the program

 Z	VMail

 0	No Dial
	Puts Dialer into silent mode
	
2-9	SpeedDial codes
	To edit, press Q and search for "SpeedDial"

Customization Notes

If you use the program, send $25 and your e-mail id and we will send you all
of our other Psion utilities. 499 Northside Circle #420 Atlanta GA 30309 USA
If your Psion database doesn't meet our specifications, we will send you a
utility that can automatically reorganize it IF YOU REGISTER. You will also
get very cool futuristic wave recordings to play back numbers in Voice mode.

Dialing is limited to a 60 digit maximum. If you have special needs, such
as a different data structure, drop us a note and we can customize a version
for you (often for the price of the registration you are about to drop in the
mail). Send us a $25 registration fee, and you will receive all of the above 
products via e-mail over the Internet (uuencoded) or CompuServe (zipped).

If we receive interest, we are willing to release a special version of Dialer 
for the visually impaired. We are in the process of redesigning Dialer into a 
full-fledged contact manager while keeping it under 50KB. Let us know of any 
features you'd like to see to make it more useful.

International users may register via CompuServe (GO SWREG  ID#: 2371)
Registered users get free Dialer updates for the life of the product.
Protronics USA 499 Northside Circle, Suite 420, Atlanta GA 30309-2112
Psion Utils (c)1995 PROTRONICS USA 404-351-1055 CompuServe 71021,1544

Psion Utils (c)1995 PROTRONICS USA 404-351-1055 CompuServe 71021,1544
