"Planner" Application
---------------------
This is an application for the S3 only. I wrote it about a year ago when
I wanted to see a year at a time, and the S3 agenda app didn't do this.
It's a non-complex program and accordingly ignores system events


Installation
------------
Install YEAR2.OPA to an APP directory
        CALEND.PIC to an OPD..
        YEAR.PIC    "  "  "
Install via Psion-I etc


Explanation
-----------
Planner makes a copy of the Agenda file, so once you'vegot it started you
can also run agenda, but the agenda file must be accessible to start with.

Usage
-----
Select an (S3 only) agenda *.agn file to display. The program then looks at
the repeated items from their inception date and calculates forward to find
their correct place in the current year. The progress bar shows when this is
completed. Dates are then plotted.
Months are 1-12. Dots separate every 5 days. Short vertical lines are timed
appts. shaded horizontal bars are untimed. the position of the bars gives
indication of the time and duration of the appt.
Alarmed appts: timed  - longer vertical bars.
               Untimed- solid horizontal bars.
The cursor flashes on todays date. Press T to return to it. If you move via
the cursor past or before the current year, the year will be re-compiled.
The number to the right is because of the way the program works-
it makes new appts for each of the repeated ones- they are deleted and
recalculated each time a new year is selected. 
Press return, or select
"reveal" to get the text of the appts for the day selected.
"Search" is self-explanatory.
"Refresh" re-copies the *.agn file you originally selected. This is in case
you keep the planner program running, make changes via "Agenda", then
want to view them.

This freeware is probably bugridden, and I of course cannot accept any
responsibility for any loss whatsoever to your software, or hardware, or
anything else resulting from the use of this software. I am quite
happy for anyone to distribute it anywhere in its original zipfile

Queries to

John Powell
90 Murray Rd
Sheffield
S11 7GG

jpowell@cix.compulink.uk
Compuserve 100043,3272

Tue 13 Sep 1994
