NGRconv

Version 1.0  (First release)
17 September 1997

by Steve Gutteridge
email: Steve@bramber.demon.co.uk
http://www.bramber.demon.co.uk/steve/psion/


This softwrae is Freeware.  It costs you nothing, but I
request that all users please register.
See registration info below.



Introduction

NGRconv is a program for the Psion Series 3a, 3c or Siena
which converts between UK  National Grid References and 
latitude/longtitudes.

The conversion can be done in either direction.  If two
locations are entered (grid or lat/long) then the 
distance and bearing between the two is also calculated.

Distance is quoted as the "Great Circle" distance, that is
the distance around the circumference of the earth, rather
than the direct path which is shorter due to the earth
curvature.

Bearing is quoted as degrees "East of True North" which is
NOT the same as Magnetic North or Grid North.


Installation

You should have unzipped the following files:

Ngr.opa     Series3a/3c/Siena version
Ngr.txt     This file

Put both files anywhere you like, but I suggest the
/APP/ directory.  Install the application from the
System screen usion <Psion Key>+I or Menu>Apps>Install

You will need about 15K of disk space to store the files
and about 33K of free memory to run it.



Using the program

The screen display is different according to whether you are
running on a large screen 3a/3c or a small screen Siena, but
the functions are the same.

Press 1 to enter grid reference of the first point and have
it converted to latitude and longtitude.

-or-

Press 2 to enter the latitude/longtitude of the first point
and have it converted to a UK National Grid Reference.

-Then-

Press 3 to enter grid reference of the second point and have
it converted to latitude and longtitude.

-or-

Press 4 to enter the latitude/longtitude of the first point
and have it converted to a UK National Grid Reference.

Repeat as often as desired.

To exit either press <Psion Key>+X or <Psion Key>+ESC or
Menu>Exit



Accuracy

As far as I can tell the accuracy is pretty good, to within
one figure (100 metres) when converting to NGR's and to within
a second or two when converting to latitude/longtitude.  The
accuracy may be slightly worse than this around the fringes
of the UK, perhaps 6 or 7 seconds of arc, but that's still
pretty good.


Error handling and Bugs

No bugs that I know of (famous last words).  Please let me know
if you discover any.

I think I have trappad all possible bad inputs, but again I may 
be wrong so please let me know if you find something odd that 
you can replicate.

If you enter a latitude/longtitude outside of the UK grid
system then no conversion can take place (obviously) but the
distance and bearing are still calculated.



Technical description

It uses lots of complicated trigonometric equations that I do not
propose to explain.  Sorry.



Registration

NGRconv is distributed as Freeware.  You may use it for a period 
of 14 days commencing the day of its first use, after which all
users are required to register with the author.

Registration is FREE.  Just send me an email, quoting your name
and email address.  All praise/comments/criticisms are welcome
too.

This serves two purposes.  Firstly it is so that I can keep
registered users informed of any updates.  Secondly it might
encourage me to write some more Psion software.



Copyright

NGRconv is copyright of the author, Steve Gutteridge.
   
No warranty is given on this program.  No liability will be
assumed for any injury, damage or loss to equipment, data or
software or any incidental expenses incurred as a result of any
such loss, damage or injury how so ever caused.
You use this program at your own risk.
   
NGRconv must not be sold or altered but may be freely distributed 
provided that this copyright notice always accompanies it
unaltered.  NGRconv must not be used commercially without the
author's permission, but otherwise permission is granted for
free use of the program in any legal way which does not involve
financial gain.

The executable file is distributed freely.  The source code and
the algorithms employed are not and are also the copyright of
the author.

NGRconv may NOT be distributed on any Shareware collection disks
or CD's which carry a cover price greater then 10 pounds sterling
without the expression permission of the author.  If there's one
thing that really winds me up it is so-called Public Domain
software companies piling loads of "Free" software onto a CD and
selling it for 30 quid or more without first asking the author's
(and at least offering them a free copy of the CD!)
   
Psion Series 3, Series 3a, and Psion Siena are trademarks of
Psion PLC.


Steve Gutteridge.
