                               JBEyecon
                             Version 1.1
                            (c)JBSoft 1996

                                 Ё
                                 цд©
                               юбады
                                юд©
                                дды


Overview
--------
JBEyecon is a simple program that just displays Psion pictures. There
are four ways pictures can be displayed...

  1. Thumbnails - this shows the top left portion of every picture in
                  S3a icon size.
  2. Programs   - shows the icons (only) embedded in a program. Other
                  pictures are not shown at this time.
  3. Icons      - only pictures that can be used as icons are shown.
  4. All        - all pictures are shown full size to the extent that
                  they will fit on the screen. If more than one will
                  fit on the screen at the same time then this is
                  achieved.

Installation
------------
Copy JBEyecon into any \APP directory on either the Internal drive or
an SSD. Install the program onto the System screen in the normal way
using Psion-I.

If Help is required whilst running JBEyecon then the additionally
supplied JBEYECON.RSC file should be placed either in the same
directory as JBEYECON.OPA or in any \OPD directory - JBEyecon will
automatically find the file in these places. No error is produced if
the help file does not exist.

View 1
------
With the Thumbnail view you can select specific pictures by using the
cursor keys and then see them in full by pressing return. If the
picture is too large to fit on the screen then you can navigate around
the picture with the cursor keys. Whilst in this thumbnail view you
have several options...

         Psion-X/Esc : Terminate program
                PgUp : Goto previous page of pics
                PgDn : Goto next page of pics
               Enter : Show full picture
             Psion-A : About this application
             Psion-C : Copy a file
       Shift-Psion-C : Copy a file with rename
             Psion-D : Delete a file
             Psion-E : Edit a file (see below)
             Psion-F : Shows complete path and name of picture
             Psion-I : Show size of picture
             Psion-M : Move a file
       Shift-Psion-M : Move a file with rename
             Psion-N : Select New Directory to show
       Shift-Psion-N : Create new picture (see below)
             Psion-P : Display Directory path
             Psion-S : Alphabetical sort
       Shift-Psion-S : Reverse Alphabetical sort
             Psion-U : Disable Sort
             Psion-Z : Size sort
       Shift-Psion-Z : Reverse Size sort

Whilst in the full picture view selected from the Thumbnail view there
are a couple of keys permitted...
   Esc/Enter/Psion-X : Return to Thumbnail view
  Left/Right/Up/Down : Move the picture a screen size in that
                       direction
             Psion-E : Edit a file (see below)
             Psion-I : Show size of picture in pixels
             Psion-N : Show filename
             Psion-P : Show Path


View 2
------
This allows the icons in an application to be shown - only the icons
are shown, not any other embedded pictures. You can't edit them or
delete them otherwise the actions are the same as with View 1.

Views 3 and 4
-------------
To go to the next page, hit any key other than Esc - if there are no
more icons to show you will get the directory dialog selector again.
Esc will terminate the program from there.

Edit/Create
-----------
It is possible to edit or create a new picture. The program uses Rick
Andrews Draw package by default but this can be changed to another
application if desired. The downside of doing this is that another
small file is created on your Internal drive. Reverting to Draw will
automatically delete this file. The application name does not have to
specify the drive as all \APP\ directories will be searched when the
drawing program is run. The highlighted file on the JBEyecon multiple
choice screen will automatically be loaded into the draw package
assuming the application allows this.

Once into the package you could create a new picture if you wish. On
exit the directory is re-read and the display refreshed.

Creation of a new file will happen in the directory currently
displayed.

Sort
----
The various sorts will stay in place until either disabled or the
program closed - they are not remembered from session to session.

3Link
-----
The program will work over the 3Link.

Thanks
------
Greatful thanks to Eberhard Rompf and Phil Spencer for their help in
testing this program.

Contact
-------
John Boyce
CompuServe: 100014,1240
CIX/Internet: jboyce@cix.compulink.co.uk

Version 1.0
-----------
First public release

Version 1.1
-----------
Added Delete, Copy and Move options.
Added ability to create a new picture.
Added ability to show Program icons.
Added a proper Help resource file.
Now possible to choose a different editor.
Added an About screen.
Now looks at any picture file regardless of extension.

                                            John Boyce 7 November 1996