Video Library for Psion Series 3 computer.
------------------------------------------

This program states that it is shareware but it is not. Anyone can have
free of charge. I put the shareware message on the front when I was
experimenting with developing the program and then disater struck. I lost
the OPL code and could not re-edit the file.

This is one of my early progs and is a bit naff really, but that said it
does keep track of all of your video progs.

In the video_01.zip file you should find the following files.

Video_01.OPA   The program file.
Video_01.txt   This file.

How the program works.
----------------------

I wrote this prog because I got fed up of writing details of programmes on
the spine of my VHS cassettes.

The first thing to do is to get all of your cassettes together and number
them. When first run, the program asks you how many tapes you have and
then asks how long each one is in minutes. Once these details have been
entered then you can begin to monitor your tapes.

Menu headings
-------------

I will briefly explain what each menu item does.

PROGRAMS
--------
ADD             Enter a new programme that you have taped.
FIND            Find a programme you have taped.
DELETE          Delete a programme from library.

TAPES
-----
FIND A TAPE             Find all programmes on a specific tape.
BLANK TAPES             Show those tapes which are blank.
SPARE CAPACITY          How many minutes available on each tape.
NUMBER OF TAPES         Increase number of tapes if you buy more
EDIT TAPE               Mark a tape as
                                Single play
                                Long play
                                Bad
                                Alter length of tape

SPECIAL
-------
PROGRAMS        List to screen or printer by following types;
                        Films
                        Dramas
                        Quiz
                        Documentary
                        Light entertainment
                        Sport
                        Wildlife
                        All
VERSION         Version number of software.
RESET COUNTER   Reset minutes free if counter messed up.
ALTER COUNTER   Alter counter to what you think it should be.
QUIT            Exit the program.


Adding progs.
-------------

Select add.
Then enter the tape number you are using.
Then enter a short title.
Then enter a description of prog (or just press enter)
Choose prog type (Press TAB to select from list)
Enter how many minutes it lasts
Choose Single play or Long Play mode.

The prog will then be saved in the library. Note: if there is not enough
space on the tape to record all of the prog then you will get a warning.


I hope this prog is of use to someone. I must admit that although its not
very good, I still use it. I will probably write a better one for the
Series 3a if anyone wants it.


Cheers

Ken Duerden.