PICtoOPL by Rick Andrews

Okay. Pictoopl. What on Earth is it? The name for four identical objects? No,
that's quadruple. This is a Series 3 utility that copies a .PIC bitmap file
and generates a *second* OPL program that can be run to reproduce the original
bitmap. Hence PIC to OPL.

The picture is stored as a set of ASCII strings encased in a self-contained
OPL program, ready for translating and running. It converts the ASCII strings
into pixels and reproduces the picture. I guess this second program should be
called OPLtoPIC!

This utility came into being when I realised there was no easy way for people
to create icons from pictures sent into IPSO FACTO. I had started next month's
utility which is an application, and I was wondering how the picture of the
icon could be printed so that it could be recreated easily. After a bit of
thinking in the bath, I remembered Ken Dudley's "Call" application in IPSO
from last August where its icon was created from a separate OPL program. And,
after a bit of aquatic lateral thinking, this is th e result.

When PICtoOPL is run, it prompts for the name of a .PIC file. When a valid
file is entered, it then prompts for the name of the new OPL file (the one
that actually redraws the bitmap). The default name is "PIC" plus the first
five characters of the .PIC filename. The bitmap is then scanned and the new
.OPL file produced, containing the bitmap as a load of dashes and stars. This
.OPL can then be sent into your favourite Psion magazine (IPSO of course), and
when run, it reproduces the picture.

There is no reason why bitmaps larger than icons cannot be converted, except
you have to bear in mind that people are going to have to type in the OPL
program produced.

If you have problems with the second OPL program not translating okay, or if
the reproduced bitmap is wrong, double-check the original OPL program
PICtoOPL. Remember that this first program 'types' the text of the second, so
any mistakes in the strings that make up the second program may not show up
until the second is run.

I've just thought of another use for this utility - if you're really desperate
for a bitmap editor, you could edit the bitmap by changing the strings in the
second OPL file before translating it!

As this utility is an application, I have also listed the .OPL program to
create its icon. The file is called MAKEICON.OPL, and the icon is a pencil
within the piece of paper with a folded corner, i.e. a script to produce a
drawing. Firstly, create a \PIC directory on your default drive (use Psion
with '+', and type "\PIC".) Enter and run the MAKEICON program to produce the
PICTOOPL.PIC icon file in \PIC, then enter and translate PICTOOPL. Install the
application on the System with Psion+I. You can then del ete the MAKEICON.OPL
file. The application is complete.

Finally, I'd like to say thanks to those of you who contacted me last month
with ideas of utilities for publication. Some of those ideas will hopefully
see the light of day in this magazine. As they say, watch this space.
