
Program copyright И November 1996 Dan Ramage

	лллллллллл                      л
	л        л                      л
	л SPRITE л >>>   Viewer.app 1.3   >>>
	л VIEWER л >>> Graphics.dyl 1.6   >>>
	л        л                      л
	лллллллллл                      л



-1-     DISCLAIMER

The author takes no responsibility for any losses
due to the use of this product including damages
to the user's computer, self, or information.
Using this software is at your own risk, and the
author is in no way liable for any of the user's
problems. (I haven't found any major bugs with it,
but if you do, I'm not responsible for anything
resulting from that problem.)

-2-     INTRODUCTION

What is Viewer.app?  Viewer.app is a front end
    program for the Graphics.dyl.  Viewer allows
    a sprite to be displayed and positioned using
    the arrow keys.

What is Graphics.dyl?  Graphics.dyl is the driver
    used by Viewer.app.  Graphics allows for
    unlimited amounts of sprites in as many windows
    as desired. It supports frames of specifiable
    lengths with a resolution up to 10 frames per
    second, and the use of both the black and grey
    planes.  Sprites can also be transparent so
    background pixels can be seen through the
    sprite's cleared pixels.

What is Sprite.als?  Sprite.als is a text editor
    for creating the required .TXT input file, used
    as the instruction set to build sprite animations
    from a series of .PIC files.
    (See "Creating animations".)

-3-     INSTALLATION

NOTE:  This program will only run on a Series 3a, 3c,
    and (possibly) the Sienna.  It will NOT run on a
    Series 3.

Copy the files Viewer.app and Sprite.als to the \APP\
    directory on any Psion drive. Copy Graphics.dyl to
    either the directory where Viewer.app is, \IMG\ or
    \DYL\ on the same drive as Viewer.app.
    Optional: Copy the example sprites (*.SPR) to the
    \PIC\ directory on any Psion drive.

Install Viewer.app and Sprite.als from the system screen
    using <Psion>+<I> and press <Enter> on either program
    to enter the program.
    NOTE:  If you do not wish to create your own sprites,
    omit copying and installing the sprite.als file.

-4-     VIEWING ANIMATIONS

    *      Choose the Open Animation menu option and
	   select a .SPR file to view.

    *      If you would like Viewer to play the sprite
	   from file instead of memory (which is slower,
	   but is much better for memory usage), set the
	   'Play sprite from:' line to 'File'.

    *      If you would like to override the default
	   duration for each frame, set the 'Override
	   default duration?' line to 'Yes' and enter the
	   speed for the sprite to be played at in tenths
	   of a second in the 'Frame duration' line.  A
	   value of 0 means that the frames are played as
	   fast as possible.

    *      Press <Enter> and Viewer will load the animation
	   and play the sprite.  You can move the animation
	   using the arrow keys and you can close the
	   animation by pressing escape, loading another
	   file, or exiting the program.

-5-     CREATING ANIMATIONS

NOTE:  A separate bitmap editor is required for making 
    the individual frames.

Choose the Make Animation menu option and select a .TXT
    input file (created with the Sprite program) and a
    .SPR output file. Viewer will create the .SPR output
    file based on the contents of the .TXT file.  The
    format of the .TXT file is as follows:

    1.    The first line of the file is the number of
	  bitmaps in the file, including repeats.
    2.    The next line is the full file specification
	  of the bitmap file that you want included
	  (i.e. "M:\PIC\JUNK.pic").
    3.    The next line is the duration for this bitmap
	  to be displayed (in tenths of a second).
    4.    Repeat steps 2 and 3 for each bitmap you want
	  in the sprite. 

If all goes well, you should have a playable output
.SPR file created!
NOTE:  Repeats are included only once, and re-
referenced for each repeat.

Here is an example file:
	
	2  (The number of bitmaps in the file)
	M:\PIC\JUNK1.PIC (The file name of the bitmap)
	5  (Display this frame for 5/10ths of a second) 
	M:\PIC\JUNK2.PIC (The file name of the next bitmap)
	2  (Display this frame for 2/10ths of a second)

-6-     DISPLAYING A BITMAP IN THE BACKGROUND

Choose the 'Set background pic' menu option and choose
    a .PIC Bitmap file.  Viewer will load the bitmap and
    display it centered on the screen.  You can use the
    arrow keys to move an open sprite over the picture
    and see the transparency abilities of the sprite.
    You can press the space bar to re-center the image.

-7-     OTHER USES FOR GRAPHICS.DYL

Graphics.dyl can be used in your own applications, so
    long as your programs are using the HWIM hwimman or
    OLIB appman application manager classes.  This is
    because of its way of event handling (i.e. OPL
    programmers can not use Graphics.dyl).

If you would like to use this in your own programs,
    (bearing in mind that they can only be HWIM/OLIB),
    you can have access to all of the information necessary
    to use Graphics.dyl for the registration fee of $15 (US).
    (See next section.)
NOTE:  The $15 registration fee (for programming information)
    is only for private, freeware, and shareware under the $10
    registration limit.  Information for uses such as $10+
    shareware and commercial software is negotiable.

-8-     REGISTRATION

If you would like use Graphics.dyl in your own applications,
or if you would just like to show your appreciation for this
free product, send $15 (US dollars) to:

	Dan Ramage
	200 Wychwood Road
	Westfield,      NJ 07090
	United States of America

You should email ahead before sending the money because I have
no obligation to supply you with the information unless I gave
it the OK.  If you are in violation of the rules stated above
(under Other Uses) and you send me $15 without my OK for your
product, I do NOT have to send your money back!

-9-     TROUBLE SHOOTING
If Viewer crashes, it is almost always from lack of memory.
If it occurs on startup, free more internal ram.  If it
occurs when you attempt to open a sprite, try setting the
'Load from:' option in the dialog to 'File'.  If you still
have problems, contact me (see Contact Information below).

-9-     STILL TO COME!

    *      OPL support for Graphics.dyl
    *      A Menu driven Sprite Animator program which
	   allows you to edit  individual frames, set frame
	   attributes, and compile this  information in to a
	   sprite format file.
    *      Synchronized sound playback along with graphics.
    *      Image compression.
    *      Support for animated GIFs.

-10-    CONTACT INFORMATION

Send bugs/comments/questions to:

	DRamage@worldnet.att.net
	or Damage@juno.com
	or my compuserve address 75452,3714

NOTE:  Send to dramage@worldnet.att.net for a faster reply as
I don't check the other so often.

Thanks to Phil Creed for his excellent icons and walking Robot
example sprite (his compuserve address is 100302,1314).

Dan Ramage 11/96
