Cable calculator for PSION 3a/3c

About:

The programme concentrates mainly on the cable calculator, which is an extensive design tool for Engineers who wish to calculate and select  the correct electrical cables for installations up to 1000V. The programme selects cables according to the International Electrical Code. Almost everything we associate with, needs electricity, which only happens at the termination of a cable somewhere. For this reason the programme has been submitted as shareware.

Cable calculator:

Sizing and selection of the most commonly used electrical cables, using copper conductors and PVC or XLPE (cross linked polyethylene) insulation, conforming to IEC 228 class 1 and 2 specifications. Calculations are done in accordance with IEC 287:1982, for single and multi core cables, armoured or unarmoured, using the full range of sheathing options. The programme is very simple and easy to use. It calculates the cable size, by first using current, to select the suitable cable. It then performs voltage drop calculations, based on AC resistance and inductive reactance, and if necessary, increases the size of cable until the specified voltage drop is achieved. It also includes derating factors for abnormal conditions, such as installations with high temperatures, or the grouping of cables together. Registered users, will receive technical assistance by Email, if necessary.


Registration:

Cable calculator in its unregistered version, selects only single core cables, with PVC 70 deg. insulation. After registration, all the other options are available. Registration will ensure that you receive support, updates and information about other technical modules. After registration your name and password, will be sent by e-mail, to open the full programme. Registration can be done by GO SWREG 16695, or Email me at 105453,3014@compuserve.com for other arrangements . The registration fee is US$ 38. 

Author Willie J Martins:

A graduate Engineer, with many years of field experience, the last ten, being at executive management level. Still amazed at how much can be done with two small batteries and a PSION. During many years of  field activity,  software has been developed for Engineering applications covering parts of almost all the mechanical and electrical disciplines. Cable calculator is the first, converted to run on a PSION and the one I have used most frequently in the past. Any comments will be appreciated.

Installation:

1.)  Copy the file Cables.opa into your application directory. (\App\)
2.)  Copy the following files  into a directory you have to create (\Eng\Dev\)

Cable.opo
Cable.pic
Cablest.pic
Cblfl.odb
Engineer.pic
Mccpvcs.odb
Mccxlpes.odb
Sccpvcs.odb
Sccxlpes.odb

3.) From the system applications menu, install Cables.opa

Disclaimer:

The Author is not responsible for any loss or damage, of any kind arising from the use of this software. No liability express or implied, will be accepted.
