Phonedy VERSION 2

On 16th April 1995 "PhONEday", all UK area codes will be modified. 
The new codes come into effect from 1st August 1994 and the old codes 
withdrawn on "PhONEday" i.e. a changeover period. Most places will just 
get new codes, but some will get new numbers as well. PHONDYV2 does both.

Files
      PhondyV2.opo         the  program
      PhondyV2.txt           This file

The Program

PhondyV2.opo is a program that changes the phone numbers in a psion database 
file, saving you time and the effort of manually changing every entry. 
When you select GO from the menu the program gives you a list of your data 
files (in the DAT directory on any drive). After your selection it then 
checks the first seven fields of each entry and updates any old numbers to 
the new ones. It also 'leaves alone' any phone numbers without the prefix STD 
codes or any with the new codes (useful if you select the same file twice!!) 
The program assumes that there is a separator between the code and number, 
e.g. 0532-123456 or 071 123 4567, and that there is nothing before the code 
on that line (field).


Shareware
The programme is not free it is shareware. The registration fee is only œ2, 
which will help decrease my student overdraft and encourage me to write more 
programs!
Please send your registration fee to:-

N.CHILTON
21 Nowell Street
Harehills
LEEDS LS9 6HS.
 
Improvements to version 2

The utility now handles:
        Freephone numbers
        National calls charged at local rates
        Premium rate services
        mobile services
        Paging and other non geographical services not mentioned above
        Phone numbers in Isle of Man, Jersey, and Guernsey
        Mercury, and Kingston phone codes
        International numbers changing "010" to "00" ( it will not alter
           numbers stored without their code e.g 1-000-0009 [France] as in
           page 140 of S3 user manual, as in those cases DIAL uses codes
           stored in the WORLD application)

The program now updates Jersey and Kingston-upon-Hull's 5 digit phone numbers 
into 6 digit aswell as the five major cities that change from 6 to 7 digits.

Nic Chilton (Sept 94).
