*** ReadMe file for ExAb v.1.7c - 22 Feb. 1997 ***

EXAB17C.ZIP contains EXAB.MCR and README.TXT.


DESCRIPTION

ExAb is a MacSys macro to EXtend ABbreviations.

It uses a self-created and self-maintained database
of your abbreviations. By positioning the cursor at the 
end of your abbreviation and hitting the hot key, ExAb 
searches the database and, if found, extends the 
abbreviation. If not found, ExAb enables you to add an 
extension to the database.

ExAb is freeware. You are free to use, modify and copy
the macro. I've used ExAb on my English 1 Mb Psion 3a,
where it performed flawlessly. However, needless to say,
I don't give guarantees and you cannot hold me
responsible in case anything goes wrong.


INSTALLATION

Copy EXAB.MCR to directory \MACRO\MCR. Open Tom 
Dolbilin's MACRO (MacSys), open EXAB.MCR (Psion-E) and
translate it (Psion-T). After installation assign a
convenient hot-key (I use <Psion-Enter>). ExAb is now
ready for use. While running for the first time, ExAb
will create the database file (EXAB.DBF) and a WORD
file (EXAB.WRD) containing ExAb information. Both
files will be created on the internal drive. 

When in WORD, typing 'exab' in lower case (ExAb is
case-sensitive) and hitting the hot-key, will extend
the info messages onto the screen. Similarly,
extending on 'help' will show ExAb information.
Actually, the help lines are written to the file from
which you called ExAb, and you may want to delete them
afterwards. The macro also works in the other Psion
programs, although long extensions, like ExAb's Help
lines, may not fit there.


NOTES

1. ExAb does not work when its database is opened by
another program (like DATA)!

2. I found irreproducible behaviour with JBDATA.
Sometimes, this resulted in error messages and the
inability to open the database. I suggest to use
Psion's DATA program for editing the database entries.

3. After having used other programs, the first use of
ExAb often results in MACRO's message: "GetText$: 
Bring server has no data available....". Just <Esc>,
deselect your abbreviation and call ExAb again.

4. When you feel confident with ExAb, you may want to 
delete the help lines from the database (EXAB.DBF) 
and/or from the macro (EXAB.MCR). To remove these lines 
from the macro file, open the file and delete the lines
indicated. After translation the size of the macro will
be reduced approximately 40%. However, I found that
this did not result in any noticeable increase in
speed.


UPDATES


V.1.0 to 1.2. First crude versions for own use.


V.1.3. This was the first version released to Tom 
Dolbilin's homepage at http://www.livetext.com/macsys/.

The macro uses a different database (EXABP.DBF) when
using "PROGRAM", Psion's OPL editor, which is also used
by MacSys. This simplifies writing OPL or macros. 
E.g. fp = Fil2Pid%:( "" ). Also, EXABP.DBF is 
automatically created after first use.


V.1.4. Includes date and time stamping.

After calling the macro behind .d or .t the current
date or time is inserted (formats: 22 Dec 1996 and
10:22:45, respectively).


V.1.5. Added whole text abbreviation extension and
related on-line Help.

Abbreviations to which the plus character (+) is added
can be extended in one go, after finishing the text.
Therefore, type ++ at the beginning of the text
containing the abbreviations, followed by the hot-key.
E.g. In the following text,
++..txttxt.. sy+ ..txttxt.. br+ ..txttxt..,
positioning the cursor after ++ and hitting the hot-key
will extend abbreviations 'sy' and 'br' and at the same
time remove all "+" characters. IMPORTANT: At the end
of the search, enter "Continue" to MACRO's "GetText$..."
message. When by accident upon this message "Stop" is
entered, MACRO should be exited and reopened before ExAb
can be used again (to enable the proper closure of
ExAb's database).

If you prefer a different character, exchange the +
character in the assignment of variable c$ in line 9 of
EXAB.MCR for the character of your choice.

When you upgrade from an earlier version and wish to
keep your old definitions and be able to consult ExAb
v.1.5 Help, proceed as follows. Use DATA to remove the
old Help records from EXAB.DBF and rename EXAB.DBF to
EXABOLD.DBF. Now upon ExAb's first use, a new EXAB.DBF
will be created, containing the new Help records. Using
DATA you can now merge in your definitions from
EXABOLD.DBF.


V.1.6. Major update.

ExAb now handles "Enters" (line-feeds) correctly. When
adding definitions in the extension input screen,
insert forward-slash (/) characters at positions where
"Enters" are required. Thus,
ExAb/Huub Linthorst/E-mail: linthors@chem.leidenuniv.nl
would be extended as:
  ExAb
  Huub Linthorst
  E-mail: linthors@chem.leidenuniv.nl

The / character can be replaced by one you prefer. To
do so, change this character in line 10 of EXAB.MCR
(variable r$) and retranslate.

An option was added that enables quickly viewing the
abbreviations and extensions accumulated in EXAB.DBF.
'Exabbing' on .? opens a screen presenting these data.
It is very important that the length of the
abbreviations not exceeds 10 characters! Upgraders,
remove the old Help lines and check your EXAB.DBF
file! When you forget to do this EXAB.DBF remains open
and you need to shut down MACRO, before it is released.

ExAb is set to handle a maximum of 100 different
abbreviations. E-mail me if you prefer a larger number.
A feature was included to show the number of the added
record.

<Esc> at the input screen during a whole text search
now quits the search.

Whole text search has been modified, resulting in less
screen flashings and increased speed.

For first-time users, WORD document EXAB.WRD will be
created, explaining the program. The document contains
the concatenated records from database EXAB.DBF.
Upgraders, see above on how to handle when you want
ExAb to create a new EXAB.DBF with the updated help
lines and the EXAB.WRD document.


V.1.7. ExAb database manipulation included.

Exabbing on .? now presents a menu from which the list
view can be opened. Alternatively, the menu opens
ExAb's database in DATA for editing, or enables
alphabetical sorting on the abbreviations field.

An extra feature was incorporated that starts or opens
a file in the proper Psion application. Thus, hot-
keying on HUUB.AGN, opens this file in AGENDA, while
exabbing on ADDRESS.DBF opens the address database.
Only the Psion applications DATA, WORD, AGENDA and
SHEET can be reached by ExAb. When also John Boyce's
JBMACFIX.OPO is installed (in the \APP directory
containing MACRO), exiting returns to the application
from which ExAb was used. If not, exiting will return
to MACRO.

Erratic GetText$: message at the end of a whole text
search removed. Thanks to a procedure of Tom Dolbilin. 




I cannot anticipate how often I'll upload future 
updates. I'm hesitant to put to much stress on the
sysops of Psion-related websites and I certainly don't
want to tire users with "daily" minor updates. However,
when you send me your E-mail address, I'll add your
name to a list of ExAb users who will receive all 
future (major and minor) updates by E-mail.

Enjoy ExAb. If you like ExAb, please, give me feed-back.

Thanks to Tom Dolbilin for his excellent MACRO program,
and Ben Clifford for the spark that ignited ExAb.

Have you already tried my other macros. CodeSafe and
DNCode encrypt sensitive information on your Psion.

Huub Linthorst
E-mail: linthors@chem.leidenuniv.nl
