============================== XFILE v1.7 ==============================

XFILE V1.7 - Extended group filing system (Application launcher).

The Psion series 3A has a system limit of 50 icons. This is reduced 
even more when using 'groups' because a group takes up an icon, and 
all the members of the group take up one icon as well.

The purpose of this program is to implement a 'group' function in a
manner similar to that of the PSION groups, but without it's members
using up an icon slot. When installing within a group the visable 
icon for each application can be altered to any icon from any file
type.

XFILE Provides the following functions.

a) No limit of number of icons installed on a machine.
b) An applications icon can be changed without altering the original file
c) OPO files can be installed as applications.
d) Reduced usage of system memory for installing applications.

This version of XFILE is the fullest version available and differs from
version 1.7 in that some additional options are now available.

Please see the amendment history for details.


                              ---oOo---

DISCLAIMER:

This software is supplied as is, no warranty is made on it's use and
no responsibility will be accepted for any damage or data loss which
results from it's use.

The software has been tested, and is believed to work but this should
not be assummed.

The software is supplied as shareware. If you find it useful you are
expected to register your copy. The code and supporting text are not
public domain. Copyright remains with the author, and all rights are
reserved.

                              ---oOo---

How to register:

Registration is simply a matter of sending me some money, specifically
œ10 (no cash please). The address to send this remmittance can be found
at the end of this file.

CompuServe users can register on-line. simply GO SWREG and use code number
5131. This costs $20. The registration screen may mention an earlier version
of XFILE, just ignore that.

Registration will allow full use of the XFILE software as well as a
limited support service, ie in a time permitting capacity.

Registered users can also leave messages on various BBS systems and I will 
respond in like as soon as possible. Currently I use the following;
        Psion user group BBS
        Internet   raymond@raymie.demon.co.uk
        Compuserve 100573,2051

                              ---oOo---

Installation of XFILE 1.7:

The following files should be installed

     \APP\XBUILD.OPA
     \RJS\XFILE\XFILE.LIB (can also be in the OPO directory)      
     \OPO\RJSLIB2.LIB    (upgraded version of RJSLIB1.LIB unchanged since 1.3)

     \RJS\XFILE\XFILE.RSC (help file - OPTIONAL)
     \RJS\XFILE\XSKEL.B16 (used by XBUILD)

     
     M:\PIC\XFILE11.PIC  (this must be on internal disk...)
                         This is the same file as in version 1.1.
     M:\PIC\XFILEB.PIC   (must also be on internal drive unchanged since 1.3)


To create an XFILE group you should install the XBUILD application and run
it. 

XBUILD will locate where you have installed the XFILE.LIB file and it will
also access the RJSLIB2.LIB file.

You will be asked to input the following information.

a) Name : What do you wish the group to be called.
b) Icon file : which picture file should be used for the icon.

An OPA file will be created in the APP directory of drive M (this must have
already been created). The OPA will be given the name specified above.

This file can be moved to another location if required and should then be
installed in the normal manner.



                              ---oOo---
Using XFILE:

In this version of the documentation the instructions will be kept to
a minimum. Future documentation will be expanded when the registered user 
base merits it. There are no plans for non-English documentation.

The installed group icon is run in the same manner as any other icon.
Pressing SPACE as you would with a Psion group will not work.

Programs can be installed within a group by pressing alt-I and then 
selecting the file (the same as a normal install). Up to 8 icons can
be installed per group.

SYSTEM applications cen be installed using alt-J as you would from the
system screen. The ROM is searched for applications and so will pick up
the 2MB ones as well as the normal ones.

When installing an application I have provided an option to allow the
user to specify another Icon to be used instead of the applications
internal one. This icon can be within ANY file type, for example you
can specify that the icon to be used is that contained in the program
xxx.APP.

Groups can be nested within each other with no limits, ie a group can be 
installed within another group. This means that in theory you can have
an unlimited number of icons installed. A group can not contain itself,
however group 1 can contain group 2 which may contain group 1.

OPO files can be installed as applications if you wish.

Applications can be uninstalled by pressing alt-/.

The left and right arrow keys scroll through the icons. The Up and Down
arrows will move up and down a directory list.

Pressing enter will run the selected program, pressing 'ALT-N' will run the
program but will first of all prompt for a 'new' filename. Pressing
enter will automatically request a file name if the application is of
a type which requires one, unless a directory list is shown.

Press the MENU key to view any other options which may be available.

KEEP RESIDENT OPTION: At the request of some registered users I have now
added the KEEP RESIDENT option. This option will allow the XFILE group to
remain open after you select an application to run, and therefore you will
return to the group screen when the application completes. This option can
be enabled from the DEFAULTS screen. 

Version 1.4 had an attempt to deal with the performance issues relating
to the mutitasking involved with this option. The option SHOULD now be more
usable but I know that further investigation is required. If you have any
comments and problems relating to this option please get in touch.

It seems that there may still be performance issues outstanding for this 
option. I suggest not using it unless you really have to.

                              ---oOo---
Technical Information:

XFILE is for the 3a only. It has only been tested on 2Mb machines
but should work on smaller models as well.

Certain file types may not function correctly in this version. The only
one I am aware of is PSION group files (.grp).

Memory usage is kept to a minimum at the point of actually executing 
the selected program hence the small size of OPL code. 

Future enhancement planned are as follows.

a) potential speed improvements are being investigated via 'C' coding.
b) More than 8 icons per group may be supported if enought interest shown.
c) Option to expand 24x24 icons to 48x48 (as on system screen).
d) Enhanced documentation to be written based on user feedback.

Comments and suggestions are always welcome.

                              ---oOo---

Registration fees and requests for support (registered owners only please)
should be addressed as follows. Please allow 10 days for registration code
to be provided. (Compuserve users will normally receive a code within 24
hours on my receipt of the sharware registration, however I may now only
be able access the system at weekends and delays may occurr).

Raymond Stone
Galactic Computing Ltd.
27 Golf Road
Cruden Bay
AB42 7QF
SCOTLAND

Please include information regarding where you obtained the software so
that I can ensure the source receives updates when available.

Sources currently updated:
     Psion User Group BBS
     COMPUSERVE
     INTERNET (comp.psion.binaries)

                              
                              ---oOo---

The following list shows applications where there are confirmed installation
problems.

Application     Problem (and work around if possible)
-----------     ----------------------------------------------------------
None            
-----------     ----------------------------------------------------------

Please inform me of any applications which do not function with XFILE.

                              ---oOo---

    Version      Enhancement made
    -------      ----------------------------------------------------------
     1.7         Directory lists now centred under icon
                 Number and letter keys scroll down dir lists
     1.6a        OPL skeleton replaced by XBUILD V1.6
     1.6         Directory lists are now shown (Can be switched off).
                 ALT-N selects a new file now (previously was 'n').
                 Initial nag screen delays reduced again.
                 IMG files should now install correctly
     1.5         Allow FAX3 to be installed correctly.
     1.4         Help system added (optional file)
                 Performance improvements if using remain resident option
                 ROM based applications now supported
                 LISTS (alias files) now supported
                 Nagg delays reduced by half
                 If an application moves drive XFILE will still find it
                 The X14 data files (after creation) can be moved onto SSD
     1.3         Implemented keys 1-8
                 Corrected OPO installation
                 Implemented handling for a busy application
                 Implemented resident processing
     1.2         Removed most of the nag screen displays
                 Fixed bug on HELP information screen
     1.1         Show default icon if specified file is missing
                 Some speed improvements via use of OS calls
                 Correct problem with initial bug screens
                 Allow full use even if unregistered
                 Code in fairly sizeable delays for unregistered running
                 Alter screen appearance to match system screen

                              ---oOo---
XFILE 1.7 6/10/95 R.Stone
