9.  Using the program
  The  first time you will run DPBank, the program will ask you
on  what drive you want to make the DPBank directory (\DPBank).
This directory HAS to be on RAM disk as it will contain all the
necessary files to keep your accounts (it will not allow you to
select  flash disks anyway). These reason is that  the  account
files will change each time you use DPBank, so a Flash card  is
not useable!
  Here  is  a  small tutorial for getting the ``feel''  of  the
program.
  Once  the  program has started, you will be  asked  to  enter
some information. I will describe the procedure now.
  .    Account  group name: this is the name that  will  appear
    under the DPBank icon on your System screen. The default is
    simply ``Accounts'';
  .    Currency  file:  you need to define your  home  currency
    symbol you want to use (up to 5 numbers or characters,  but
    please make sure that this is correct, since it is the only
    thing  you  cannot  change later!) and  any  other  foreign
    currencies you plan on using (not necessary for the moment).
    The default is the System currency you set;
  .   Accounts: enter your most used account first since DPBank
    will always show this one on start. You then need to enter the
    real opening balance, it's currency, as well as the date of
    this balance (no future dates are allowed here). Make sure that
    the currency is correct, since you cannot change this later on.
    After  that you can enter some useful information for  this
    account (especially if you use cheques, choose yes  in  the
    ``Uses cheques?'' line).
  Since  this  is the first time you're using DPBank,  it  will
display  a  dialog with some information on how to  use  DPBank
optimally; please read it. When you've read it press  ESC,  you
are  then  welcomed with your first account in the  form  of  a
``card''. This is just like a filing card and each account  you
add,  will appear to the right of this one (no re-ordering  for
the  moment, but see section 13 ``Future'' for features planned
for next versions).
  You  see  the first transaction which is always the ``opening
balance''  with the balance you entered. To add a  transaction,
simply  press  the  space bar (or Psion-n). You  will  see  the
transaction dialog which I will describe now.

9.1 Transaction dialog
  The  first  line  asks  you  for a  description.  It  is  not
mandatory  to enter a description, since if this line  is  left
blank, the auto description will be used (unless of course  you
don't have any auto descriptions!)
  The  second line is the auto description choice (select  with
TAB).  If  you want to select an auto description, be  sure  to
leave  the  description line blank! Note that  this  line  only
appears if you have entered at least one auto description.
  The  third  line  is the amount and the fifth  asks  for  the
currency  of this amount (select with TAB to expand the  choice
if you have set several currencies).
  The  fourth  line asks if this transaction is a credit  or  a
debit in your account ie: if you give money to the bank or take
back  from  them). I've put it here so you don't need  to  move
around  with  the  cursor too much in  order  to  enter  a  new
transaction.
  Finally,  your  are  asked for the date of this  transaction.
You  can  enter future transactions. For this example,  do  not
change  this  since it automatically defaults to today's  date.
Just  enter  an  amount  and  a description  or  use  the  auto
description  to see how it works. The date defaults  either  to
the  date  of  the  highlighted (selected)  transaction  or  to
today's  date  if the (previously) highlighted transaction  was
the last one in the account.
  If  all  goes  well (if you entered enough information),  you
will  see  this transaction appear on the last line in  reverse
characters (highlighted).
  You   can   now  move  up  and  down  on  the  two  different
transactions. Once you get some more items entered, you will be
able to move from page to page, below are the commands you  can
use to move.

9.2 Moving around
.   right/left: moves from one account to another
.   up/down: moves from one transaction to another
.   Psion-up/down: equivalent to page up/down; moves 10
    transactions at a time
.   Psion-control-up/down: jumps to first/last transaction in
    account
.   Psion-left/right: equivalent to home/end; goes to
    first/last accounts in group.
  You  can also press the first letter of the account you  want
to jump to. If more than one account has the same first letter,
pressing  the first letter a second time will jump to the  next
and so on.

9.3 New accounts
  Now  press Psion-shift-n (for new) or choose ``Add new'' from
the  ``Accounts'' menu choice. You will be asked  for  the  new
account's  name as well as it's balance (with the corresponding
date  and currency) and some useful information (just like  the
first  one  actually...)  You then  see  that  a  new  ``card''
appears. You can now move between between the accounts with the
cursor right/left.

9.4 Transfers
  Now  that you have two accounts, you can make a transfer from
one to the other. Choose ``Transfers'' from the ``Transaction''
menu choice or press Psion-t for a shortcut.
  You  are then shown the Transfer dialog. It is quite straight
forward, and I don't believe you need instructions ;-).

9.5 Currencies
  The  strong point of this program is its currency management.
I  was  looking at some of the other bank account programs  for
the Psion Series 3a but I haven't found one that allowed me  to
do  what I wanted very easily: see my bank account in my  local
currency,  but  allow  me  to  enter  transactions  in  foreign
currencies  (when  I  travel) for my credit  card  for  example
(well,  of  course, other ``monsters'' could do that...  but  I
didn't  need  the rest!). If you've always looked  for  such  a
feature, then here you have it!
  To  go  to  the currency maintenance, press Psion-shift-u  or
choose ``Currencies'' from the ``Special'' menu choice.
  You  will  be  asked  if  you  want  to  add/delete/modify  a
currency  (unless you don't have any currencies in  which  case
you go directly to the add section). Select add and you will be
prompted with a dialog. The only thing that needs some  details
is  the  conversion rate. You can enter the rate in both  ways,
this  means that you can enter for example: 1$ = XX  amount  in
your local currency, or 1 amount of your local currency = XX $.
This  is up to you and actually depends on your country's money
strength  and traditions... Just be sure to enter  the  correct
choice in the ``Rate is for 1 unit of'' by choosing foreign  or
local (as in the above example).
  Deleting  and  modifying currencies is quite intuitive,  just
try  it.  Note  that  you cannot delete  a  currency  which  is
currently  being used in a standing order or as  base  currency
for an account (including global).
  Just  a  quick  note here: all currency conversion  are  made
through  your  home currency. It might not give you  the  exact
direct  conversion rate if say for example you have  UKP  (home
currency),  USD and CAN$, when you enter a USD amount  into  an
account kept in CAN$ since the program will transfer USD to UKP
then to CAN$.

9.6 Auto descriptions
  If  you're really in a hurry (and you usually are ;-)),  auto
descriptions can greatly simplify your life. If you want to add
or  delete an auto description, press Psion-shift-a. You cannot
edit  an auto description, so delete it first, then add  a  new
one.
  If  you  delete the last auto description, you will  not  get
the  ``autodescription''  line in  the  ``transaction  dialog''
anymore (that was just in case you didn't need them).
  Auto  descriptions are limited to a maximum  comma  separated
list of 255 characters (internal OPL limitation). Thus you  can
have  many small auto descriptions, but only a few (well 9)  of
25 characters (maximum I have allowed per auto description).

9.7 Categories
  For  each transaction, you can assign it to a category.  This
field  is  usually  used  for budget categories,  but  you  can
actually use it for anything you like (maybe to remember  where
the  money came from/who paid if the account is shared  between
several  people/...).  For  each category  you  must  assign  a
``short  code'' (2 letters/numbers max) that will be  displayed
on the screen.
  Categories display can be toggled on/off in the preferences.
  If  you  intend to export to Quicken, be sure  to  enter  the
same  category names that you use in Quicken (in the long  name
field of course).

9.8 Standing orders
  Standing  orders  are transaction which  happen  every  month
(like  payments or your salary ...) You can enter these in  the
standing  orders  dialog  which is called  with  Psion-shift-o.
Choose  whether you want to add/delete/modify a standing order.
If no standing orders are entered yet, you are defaulted to the
add  option. You will be asked to enter some details  and  when
everything is correct, it will save the standing order to disk.
As  soon  as  the  chosen day comes around, you  will  see  the
standing order appear. You can also make future standing orders
appear   by   changing  the  preferences  (see   section   9.18
``Preferences'').
  For  the  time being if you want to make a standing transfer,
you will need to make two different standing orders.
  Just  a  word of caution though: once the standing order  has
appeared,  do  not delete it, as it will NOT  come  back  again
during  that  month!  Please be careful  with  future  standing
orders!  See also section 12 ``Technical'' for more information
on how the program works.

9.9 Editing transactions
  Press   Psion-e   or  simply  Enter  to  edit   the   current
(highlighted)  transaction.  As  usual,  the  dialog  is  quite
intuitive and looks quite like the ``New transaction'' dialog.
  Note:   if  you  have  deleted  the  original  currency   the
transaction was made in, you will get the conversion into  your
account's  main currency with the last rate you used. Otherwise
you will get the foreign currency and amount (what else did you
expect ;-).

9.10 Evaluating transactions
  When  in  the transaction dialog, you can evaluate an  amount
automagically simply by entering the string to evaluate in  the
amount  line.  You  can even use the calculator  memories!  For
example,  if you have 100 stored in the M1 calc memory,  typing
``m1+25'' will result in a transaction with an amount of 125.

9.11 Copy / Insert transactions
  You can copy a transaction into the memory buffer with Psion-
c. Alternatively, when you delete a transaction, it will be put
into  the memory buffer as well for safety reasons. Just  press
Psion-i  as in all ``normal'' Psion applications to insert  the
transaction again.
  Notes:
  .   This does NOT work with transfers; you would only get back
      the transaction from the current account.
  .   You can copy/insert transactions over different accounts
      and even different groups.

9.12 Reconciling transactions
  You  can  check the transactions which have appeared on  your
bank  statement when you receive it at the end  of  the  month;
this  is called ``reconciling''. It is only useful if you  keep
back transactions from other months, so you can see up to where
you  have  already  checked. I usually delete old  transactions
once  the  statement has arrived. Individual reconciliation  is
done  with  Psion-r  or  more  simply  shift-enter.  Reconciled
transactions are marked with a check mark at the far right.
  You   can   reconcile  up  to  (and  including)  the  current
(highlighted) transaction with Psion-shift-r. This  might  take
some time, depending on the amount of transactions you have  in
your account, so please be patient.

9.13 Deleting transactions
  Just  press  Psion-d  or  the delete key  to  delete  current
(shown  in  highlight) transaction. In case  you've  mistakenly
deleted  a transaction, you can get it back by pressing Psion-i
(for insert).
  Note:  deleting  single items does NOT  affect  the  balance,
even if the transaction is cleared. By this I mean that it will
not  issue a new ``Opening Balance''. It will of course set the
balance to the correct state in itself.
  You   can   delete   up  to  (and  including)   the   current
(highlighted)  transaction with Psion-shift-d  or  more  simply
shift-delete. This on the other hand, WILL update  the  balance
and  put  a  new ``Opening Balance'' as the first  transaction.
This  is  used at the end of the month when you have reconciled
all your transactions with the bank's statement.

9.14 Archiving transactions
  You  can  archive any transactions (you have  the  choice  of
dates  and  types of transactions) to another  file  by  either
selecting  ``Archive''  from  the  ``Group''  menu  choice   or
pressing  Psion-a  directly. This file will  be  a  ``regular''
group  file  and  appear under the DPBank icon on  your  System
screen.
  To  open  it  again, simply choose ``Open  group''  from  the
``Group'' menu choice or use the shortcut Psion-o.
  Note:  for  the time being you cannot append transactions  to
another  file.  You must either overwrite it  or  make  another
archive file.

9.15 Exporting transactions
  Pressing Psion-shift-e lets you export any transactions  from
the  current  account into either a pure ASCII  (TXT)  file,  a
Quicken  (QIF) file or to a Psion database (DBF) file.  If  you
don't define a complete filename with an extension, the program
will set the default extension for you. You have the choice  of
which transaction type (reconciled, unreconciled, ...) you wish
to  export and the record separation character you wish to  use
in the ASCII export. If you use the ASCII export, you'll get  a
file with each line representing a transaction.
  If  you  want to export to Sheet, you'll need to use  one  of
the various txt2spr utilities after having exported to text.
  Each  field in a transaction will be delimited with  whatever
character you've chosen. The fields are in this order:
  1. Date (in whatever format your Psion uses, be sure to set
     the correct format for Quicken files in the Time application,
     ie: DD/MM/YY for Europe and MM/DD/YY or YY/MM/DD for USA). NB:
     the date separator is also taken from Psion's Time application,
     please set all preferences there before starting DPBank (as
     DPBank only retrieves the prefs once at the start).
  2. Description
  3. Local amount (in terms of what currency the account is
     held in)
  4. Balance  associated with that transaction  (may  not  be
     correct if you don't export all transactions!)
  5. Cleared flag (0=uncleared)

9.16 Sum up transactions
  This option is accessed with Psion-shift-s. It allows you  to
sum   up  various  transactions  which  start  with  the   same
description or have the same category. This allows you  to  use
the  auto descriptions and then make a new transaction  at  the
end  of the month with that transaction's amount being the  sum
of  all the same transactions and the date being the last  date
of  the  summed  up  transactions.  This  avoids  keeping  many
transactions  in an account and thus speeds up  the  program  a
bit.
  Sounds a little complicated, but it's real easy to use,  just
try it.
  You  can  also  only  view the result without  modifying  any
transactions;  this is particularly interesting  for  use  with
categories for example.

9.17 Viewing global amount and balances
  It  is  quite  straight forward: just select the  appropriate
choice  from the menu or use the shortcuts Psion-g (for global)
or tab (for balances).

9.18 Preferences
  Press  Psion-q to go to the preferences menu. You can  choose
the  number of days that are displayed from future transactions
in the future view. The future view is obtained by pressing the
diamond  key. This is only useful if you have lots of  standing
orders and would like to do a ``what if'' choice.
  You  can  choose  if you want to see warnings (when  deleting
transactions for example) or not. I suggest you leave  them  on
for some time until you get comfortable at using the program.
  You  can  also  choose the currency used  in  the  ``Global''
window.
  Here  you  can also select the amount of memory you  want  to
use  for  the  cache (ie: set aside for keeping  procedures  in
memory  instead  of  always loading/unloading  them).  For  OPL
programmers, this is the CACHE xxx,yyy command.
  If  you  don't understand the technical nature of  all  this,
just  set it to 2000 (which is the minimum it will use  if  you
allow  any  cache size below this anyway) and you  will  see  a
considerable speed increase already in the screen refreshing. A
cache size of 2000 will need about 3k of extra memory.
  I've  allowed  this  option  because  DPBank  was  originally
intended  for  people  with low memory possibilities  (256/512k
Series  3a  still  exist  you know  ;-).  It  was  thus  highly
optimized  for memory usage and not speed. (Unfortunately,  you
have to choose between the two.) On the other hand, people with
1/2Mb  Psions felt a little "slowed" down... so hopefully  this
will please everyone now.
  The  "allow  big amounts" option allows you to  enter  bigger
amounts  than those normally allowed. You can enter amounts  up
to  999 999 999 999.99 with this option. Hopefully this will be
enough  for  all  of  you  now; if  not,  just  transfer  me  a
significant part of it ;-)
  The  downside to this is that you will not be able to see the
"Balance" column anymore on the screen (it would have  made  it
too  clogged). On the other hand, the amounts will be displayed
with  triad  separation (if you allowed this  from  the  System
preference of course). To see the balances, you can still press
Psion-b or more simply TAB.

9.19 Password protection
  To   use   password  protection,  press  Psion-w  or   select
``Password''  from the ``Special'' menu choice. You  will  have
the  choice of asking for the password only on startup or  also
when  you  switch  back to DPBank if you  leave  it  open.  The
procedure  is  quite  easy to understand  and  similar  to  the
System's own password.
  A  word  of caution here: password protection does  not  mean
that  the files are encrypted! If you have sensible data to  be
kept  on  your Psion, don't rely on ANY password to  keep  your
thief away from it. Even the System password is bypassable!
  Also,  be sure to remember your password since forgetting  it
means  that you will not be able to access your bank  data  any
more ...
  Be  careful  if  you want to password protect  your  accounts
group  when switching to DPBank, not to leave DPBank in a  menu
or  a dialog when you switch from it! If you do, it will not be
able  to ask for the password and anyone can then look at  your
accounts.

9.20 Compression
  The  files are automatically compressed each time you  switch
accounts  or  when  you exit DPBank. If you leave  the  program
running  for  a  long  time and have made lots  of  changes  to
transactions, it may be wise to compress the file to gain  some
disk space. This is simply done with Psion-k.

9.21 Useful info
  For  each account you can save some useful information. Press
Psion-u for the dialog. This is also the place where you change
the  name  of the account. You can enter text details like  the
account  number  and telephone number of the bank  by  choosing
"Enter more details".
  If  your  bank  offers monthyl interest rates, you  can  tell
DPBank to approximate them for you automatically at each end of
month. When you enter interest rates, they are always in annual
rates. Banks give them in annual rates, so this simplifies your
entry.  For  debit  interests, please enter  them  as  negative
interests.
  The  other options are self explanatory so just take  a  look
at them.

9.22 Printing
  To  print,  you need to first use the "Print Setup" (Psion-y)
dialog  to  fix  the number of lines per page as  well  as  the
printer device. You can select either parallel, serial or  file
printing.  Printing  does NOT work with  PsiPrint  and  there's
nothing  planned  in that direction (because it  would  mean  a
major  investement for me and would use up quite some  memory).
If you want to print to your PC's printer, you should choose  a
remote  file to PRT: or LPT1: or whatever is suitable (but  NOT
the serial device!). Printing is then accessed with Psion-p  as
usual  and it's quite straight forward... why am I writing  all
these docs in the end? ;-)
  Categories  will  be  printed if  you  have  them  displayed,
otherwise they'll not be printed.

9.23 Diamond key
  The  diamond  key lets you switch between actual  and  future
transactions display. Let me explain this: if you want to enter
future  transactions, you will not see them unless you  are  in
the  future  transactions view and you've  set  the  number  of
future days in the preferences.
  There  is  no  status  bar on the right of  your  screen  for
screen space reasons. If you want to see one temporarily,  just
press  Psion-Menu. Alternatively, if you don't know which  view
you're in, just press the diamond key and read what the program
displays in the bottom right corner of your screen.

9.24 Plotting acount data
  You  can use Nick Dawkin's excellent Plot utility that allows
you  to  view your data graphically in a time wise manner.  You
can    download   this   program   from   Nick's    site    at:
http://www.pavilion.co.uk/users/ndawkins/  Alternatively,   you
can mail Nick at: ndawkins@pavilion.co.uk
  Please pass all Plot ideas/comments directly to Nick.

9.25 Plugins
  Plugins allow you to customize DPBank to what you need it  to
do.  If  you can program in OPL, you can very easily make  your
own  plugin.  If  you can't program, then  you  can  use  other
people's  plugins.  At time of writing, an  important  category
analyzer plugin is being written by Christian Bormann. You  can
email  Christian directly for more details at: bormann@ikf.uni-
frankfurt.de
  DPBank  plugins  must reside in an \app\dpbank  directory  of
any  drive.  For DPBank to recognize the plugin, it  must  also
find  a  special file that has an "dpb" extension in  the  same
directory. This file is distributed by the plugin author.
  For  OPL  programmers, see the file PLUGINS.TXT for technical
details about making plugins that work dynamically with DPBank.

9.26 Switching back to DPBank with a hotkey
  There  is  a  system  wide hotkey implemented  if  you  leave
DPBank  open: Psion-ctrl-d (all 3 keys pressed simultaneously).
Be  careful not to leave DPBank in a menu or a dialog  box.  If
so,  the  program  cannot be responsive to  shut-down  messages
(when  you  press delete on the system screen for  example)  or
hotkey  messages.  Of  course, if you prefer,  you  can  assign
DPBank to one of your system buttons (eg: ctrl-Sheet) with  the
system  preference; this has the advantage  of  going  back  to
DPBank in all cases.

10. Registering DPBank
  This  program  is  now  shareware  since  it  took  quite   a
considerable  amount of time to make. If you  don't  like  this
idea,  fine:  either use version 1.0 of this program  or  write
your  own ;-) I don't believe it's really worth it for  such  a
small fee ...
  In  any  case,  please  read  the file  ``REGISTER.TXT''  for
details of how to register and the cost.
  The  future of this program depends if enough people like  it
and register it.

11. Limitations and bugs
.   Only 12 accounts can be tracked PER group
.   Only days 1-28 are allowed for standing orders
.   It can get quite slow when a lot of transactions are kept
    in the file (approx, over 50)
.   DPBank  will  now work if you use the comma  as  decimal
    separator when you start the program; but do NOT change the
    decimal separator once you've created a group, otherwise DPBank
    will not start anymore.
.   When  reconciling foreign amounts, sometimes the amounts
    are too big and you can only see the end of the local amount in
    the dialog (when the amount is automatically displayed); simply
    press cursor left to see the beginning of the local amount.
.   NEVER leave the remote link on! Due to some obscure Psion
    problem (bug?) it might trash your files!
.   A  lot of bugs have been found during beta testing  (and
    have  of course been fixed). I can't garantee you that  the
    program is completely bug free (and I suppose there still must
    be the odd one lurking around in there; programmer's axiom:
    there are always at least 2 bugs in a program ;-). If you do
    find one, please report it to me! See section 16 ``Author'' for
    my address.
  And  remember:  the best cure is prevention!  Always  keep  a
backup  copy  of  your vital data (and I do suppose  your  bank
account is vital data, no?).

12. Technical
  The  program  uses several files. It uses four  common  files
for each group (preferences, currency, categories, and standing
orders)  and two files for each account (the real data and  the
information). All these files are in a \DPBANK directory.
  If  you want to delete a whole group, you must delete all the
files with the same name (but different extensions). This means
that for each account you must delete 2 files (the Data and the
Info).
  The  currency  and the categories file are the same  for  all
the  groups  on the same drive. All other files are independant
of each other and can be changed from group to group.
  Each  account file is a separate DataBase file (although  you
cannot open it using DATA because it contains fields which  are
not  alphabetical  strings). It is  compressed  each  time  you
switch  accounts  but  if you do a lot of transactions  on  one
account  without  switching to another, you can  also  manually
compress the file with Psion-k.
  Actually,  the  hardest  part is understanding  the  standing
order  technique.  Each time you write  or  modify  a  standing
order,  it is written to the standing order file. The  standing
orders  are  checked when you change the number of future  days
shown or if the date changes (you can leave the Psion off;  the
next time you run DPBank , it will check for standing orders by
itself).  If  there are any standing orders  that  need  to  be
written to an account, then it will ``transfer'' a copy  of  it
to  the actual account and write a record into it. It will then
change the date in the standing order file on which the next SO
must  next  appear.  Thus, if you delete or modify  a  standing
order,  it  may not immediately take effect if you are  showing
future  days.  Especially if you modify a SO that  has  already
appeared once, it will appear again under the new name, so  you
have to manually delete the old occurences ...

13. Future
  I plan on adding these features for future versions:
  .   Re-ordering of accounts
  .   More localisation of the whole program (any volunteer(s)
      to translate only the program and/or the documentation into
      other languages?)
  .   Better standing orders
  .   More accounts
  .   Show conversion rate when reconciling foreign currencies...
  .   Sorting of auto descriptions/categories
  .   Faster global indexing
  Quite a long list, and so many other things to do :-(

14. Thanks to
  I  would like to particularly thank Philippe Lebreton,  Jason
Savage, Simon Wallace, Arnaud Weil and Konstantin I. Saliy  for
originally  beta testing this program and giving  me  some  new
ideas. My biggest thanks must go to:
  .   Arnaud for having translated the whole documentation and
      program into french (for which I was too busy myself).
  .   Espen  Joranger  for the Norwegian  translation  of  the
      program.
  .   Karsten Weisbauer for the German translation of the whole
      documentation, program and help file!
  .   Nick Dawkins for his excellent Plot utility.
  .   Christian Bormann for his excellent beta testing and
      category analyzer plugin.
  Also a very special thanks to Anne-Laure, my girlfriend,  for
having  supported  me while I was programming  and  for  having
showed  me that you can never make a fool proof program however
hard you try!
  And  last  but  not least, all the users which  have  already
registered  the  program since version 1.1 (you  know  who  you
are!), thank you all!

15. Legal stuff
  DPBank  is  provided ``as is''. This means, it does  what  it
does,  and  I  cannot be held responsable if  it  crashes  your
system, or causes any other dammages. If however you do have  a
problem with it, please report it to me and I will try to  help
you out to fix it.
  You  are not allowed to reverse translate this program and/or
use  any  part  of  it in your own programs  without  my  prior
consentement.

16. Support / ideas
  I   will  offer  free  support  by  electronic  mail  to  all
registered  users. If you are having problems  setting  up  the
program,  I  will  of  course  also  help  you  if  you're  not
registered  yet,  BUT  please, be sure to re-read  this  manual
before asking for help. Thank you!
  See  my  "Future" section above (and the DPBank  homepage  if
you  can) for all the things that have been requested and  that
will (hopefully once) be implemented.

17. Author
                          Snail mail:
                         Daniel Pfund
                       19, ch. Tirelonge
                         CH-1213 Onex
                          Switzerland
  You   can   also   reach   me  via   Email   (preferred   !):
``Pfund3@uni2a.unige.ch''  or  if  this  address  doesn't  work
anymore  (stops around the 11th of October 1997) you can  still
write      to      me     at:     ``Pfund@POBoxes.com''      or
``101743.775@compuserve.com''.
  If  you  have  World Wide Web access, I strongly suggest  you
check        out        the       DPBank        page        at:
``http://www.geocities.com/SiliconValley/8130/''    for     any
updates/bug reports.

18. Planet Pfund
  I   have  founded  my  own  company  specializing  in   Psion
computers.  We  offer  a  vast  range  of  Psion  products  and
accessories  at  competitive prices. If you need  to  buy  some
Psion  product, why not check out Planet Pfund first?  Our  web
site is:
  http://www.planet-pfund.com
  Even  though  we are Swiss based, we can ship  worldwide;  be
sure to visit us once!
  [End of DPBank documentation]

