Psion Utils (c)1995 PROTRONICS USA 404-351-1055 CompuServe 71021,1544

HOURLY is a slick program which announces the hour (even if it's off, except 
from 1am to 7am) without wasting battery life. Hourly also fixes a major bug 
in Agenda. Previously, if you silenced an alarm and immediately turned off 
your Psion, it wouldn't have time to find the next alarm and you would miss 
your next appointment. Hourly fixes this by turning on your Psion once an 
hour for a moment.

You can set up Hourly in four different ways:

1) Load CUCKOO.WVE into \WVE	Plays Cuckoo sound on the hour
2) Load *.SPK into \OPD		Announces the time on the hour
3) Both options 1) and 2)	Plays Cuckoo and says the time
4) Load nothing to save space	Gives a double beep on the hour

When Hourly is first run, your Auto ShutOff is set to 15 seconds 
in case you aren't running Powerup (which turns it off for you).
If you want a greater selection of digitized numbers, please register
a we will send you our collection of hi-tec, male/female, cartoon
announcers to spruce up your Psion's personality. Of course, we'll
also e-mail you all of our other great Psion apps for registering.

POWERUP started as a simple routine that plays a .WVE file each time you turn
on your Psion. The default sound is the tricorder from similar to a popular 
science fiction show we can't mention. Some rather nifty features have been 
added ...

Powerup also records a quick message, bypassing security, if you hold down the
<Esc> key when powering up. The Psion will beep and record a 5 second message
to REC01.WVE, REC02, REC03, etc. You can press Tab to end the recording early.
The next time you turn on the Psion, your reminder will be played. Holding down
Ctrl-<Esc> when powering up will go to the Powerup screen after you enter your
password. Here you can record, play, & erase recordings quickly by pressing 1,
2, 3, etc. This is perfect for quick messages in the car, in the dark, in bed,
or when you are pressed for time.

FLASH! - With a slight mod, you can now make recordings and turn off alarms 
with your Psion closed or still in its case. Simply cut .5 cm off the top of
a standard paper clip and tape it just above your screen (when your Psion
closes, it should be above the spacebar). Load Powerup and close case (with
Psion still on). Give the case a slight squeeze (with thumb below speaker &
fingers in bottom ridge on case). Your Psion should begin recording.
You can also test this in Word by inserting spaces. Each time you squeeze
your Psion while the alarm is sounding gives you an extra 5 minutes of
snooze time. If you have trouble getting this to work, use thicker tape or,
if you prefer, for an extra $5 (+ registration), we will send you a 
self-adhesive rubber strip that looks good above your screen. 

Hold down the System button with the Psion off and the Psion will turn on in
Stealth mode (silently). Hold it down again with the Psion off and Sound will
be restored. You can change sound settings manually by pressing Psion-<S> from
the System screen. The quick record will still work in Stealth mode, but you
will not hear any beeps. To use a different startup sound, change Name$ in
POWERUP.OPL or overwrite TRICORD.WVE with your favorite sound effect. Press S
to adjust the recording length. If you still want alarms but wish to disable 
the Tricorder sound, turn the Sound back on from the System screen (Psion-S).


NOTE: If your Agenda alarms are set up to ring 5 or 10 minutes in advance,
POWERUP will shut your Psion down after the first ring because it thinks
HOURLY has just buzzed the speaker. This is great if you always keep your
Psion with you or if you don't want it to ring incessantly while you're away.
However, if you'd like your Psion to keep ringing until you press a key: from
Agenda, press Psion Q, Psion E, choose Timed Entry Alarm Defaults, and set
the Advance for Alarm to 5, 10, 15 minutes, etc. Your alarms will now ring
regularly (incessantly).

Directions:

1) Copy the .WVE file to a \WVE\ directory. Copy all .OPO files to \OPO\
2) Run POWERUP.OPO & HOURLY.OPO (they will move to background after beeping)
3) You have permission to modify POWERUP.OPL for personal use if you promise
   to e-mail enhancements to ccocssw@acme.gatech.edu
4) To turn either OPO off, choose Exit application from the System menu or
   press Psion-<Esc> from within the program
5) For more Psion and organiser software, call Protronics USA at 404-351-1055
6) If you use the program, send $25 and your e-mail id and we will send you all
   of our other Psion utilities. 499 Northside Circle #420 Atlanta GA 30309 USA

Powerup & Hourly will NOT drain your batteries and do NOT slow down your 
processor while running in background; playing long WAV files will. Use 
rechargeables.  Memory is 8KB. Enjoy! We are working on a simple speech 
recognition app for speed dialing and a text to speech util that will 
give the Psion 3a a spoken agenda, document reader, more personality, 
and other capabilities. Be free to send us your suggestions and ideas.

Send us a $25 registration fee, and you will receive all of the above 
products via e-mail over the Internet (uuencoded) or CompuServe (zipped).

CompuServe/overseas users may register online: GO SWREG  (ID is 7768)
Protronics USA 499 Northside Circle, Suite 420, Atlanta GA 30309-2112
Psion Utils (c)1995 PROTRONICS USA 404-351-1055 CompuServe 71021,1544
