GREP
 A Text Find Utility for Contact Edge
Version 1.1 (c) Dr. Alan Hughes 1997


General

This program is a simple utility for CONTACT  EDGE (*) users. It allows the user to search for text within the notes files that CONTACT EDGE creates

WARNING

I wrote this utility for my own personal use. it is supplied with no warranty or guarantees. However, it seems to work reasonably well but I cannot ensure there are no bugs hiding around.  As it does not modify any files there should however be few dangers.


Installation

The program is installed by copying grep.opa to any \APP directory. After this install it on the system screen using Psion+I.


Instructions

Please make sure that before running this utility you have exited Contact Edge itself. If you try and run both programs at the same time an error will occur when the utility tries to read the datafiles.


The utility will then scan your discs  looking for your edge files in the \EDGE\ directory. If they are not sited here the program will exit and will not perform.

Once the program has located your files you have a few options either via the menu or by hot keys. These are pretty self-explantory but in summary they are :-


PSION F	Look through the notes files for a piece of text. This is not 
		case sensitive. The program will display a running total
		on the top right of the screen and display the contact's company 
		name and the notes file the text is contained in in the upper
		screen display. 

		When the text has been found it will be displayed in context
		in the lower screen and the option to continue with
		the search or not will be given.


PSION I	See the self-advertisment again (Recommended)

PSION H	(Or Help) Review the options and commands

PSION X	Quit the program.

Information

If you need help or assistance with this program please feel free to contact me at :-

	Dr Alan Hughes
	Rossendale
	Main Road
	Langbank
	Renfrewshire
	Scotland
	PA14 6XP

	email 	ahughes@netcomuk.co.uk

An other utility available is reref.opa which allows the
rereferencing of CONTACT EDGE files on an individual
basis.

History

Ver 1.1b	Bug fix, now correctly scans all drives
Ver 1.1	Improved version - new features :-
		Allows text in context to be seen on successful find
		Improved screen display
		Improved icon
Ver 1.0	Initial version. Functional but bare

-------------------------------------------------------------------
(*) 	Contact Edge is Copyright TCS Ltd & Ad Bosch.  
	This excellent contactmanager (which is freeware) 
	is available at http://www.worldaccess.nl/~adbosch
-------------------------------------------------------------------


