SLIDESHO (c) ALRMEDSOFT DEC95
********

SlideSho is a very simple, straightforward program that allows the user
of a Psion Series 3a to look at pictures saved in PIC format in an
automated fashion.


Current Version
---------------
v1.1 as of 02 DEC 95


Installation
------------
The files in this archive should be:
 SLIDESHO.OPA     the application
 SLIDESHO.TXT     this file
 SCR1.PIC
 SCR2.PIC         2 example files

(the example files are actually screen shots. You can have them with the
key combination Psion-Shift-Ctrl-S.
You will then find a file named M:\SCREEN.PIC)

Installation is very simple:

 1. Copy the application, "SLIDESHO.OPA", to any \APP directory.
 2. Install the application from the system Menu.

A projection screen Icon should now be visible on your system screen.


Usage
-----

You must have at least one PIC file available.
When starting SLIDESHO, a startup 'SELECT DIRECTORY' dialog becomes visible.

  Image:  select the drive and directory in which your PIC files are.
  Show :  either 'ONCE' (the show stops after all files have been viewed)
          or     'CONTINUOUSLY' (the show repeats without end)
  Time :  number of seconds during which a file will stay displayed.
          If you use 0, you will have to change slides manually.

The show then begins, according to the options you will have selected.
These keys are active during the show:

   HELP : calls a small help screen ; press any key to clear.
   TAB  : pauses the show (press any key to resume, ESC to end).
   ESC  : ends the show and the program.


Miscellaneous
-------------

This is a very simple program which I have tested as thouroughly as I
could. There should be no risk to your Psion or its files, however I
cannot accept responsibility for any kind of loss or damage resulting
from the use of your program. Use at your own risk !

This program is released as freeware. I wanted it simple and it should
stay so. However if there is sufficient interest in any kind of
improvement I might work on it.

If you have any questions, feel free to contact me:

Dr Andre L. Rodach
Compuserve: 73614,1533
Internet  : 73614.1533@compuserve.com

********
SLIDESHO (c) ALRMEDSOFT DEC95
