Trip+ for EPOC32 Version 2.0
(C) Eric Sebban 1999-2000
ericson@pocketiq.com
http://www.pocketiq.com or http://perso.club-internet.fr/ericson

Thanks for trying Trip+ for EPOC32


Installing Trip+ :
--------------------
0. please check that sysram1.opx and agenda2.opx
   don't exist in c:\system\opx or d:\system\opx, if yes delete them
   before launching installation (or use uninstaller in the control panel)
1. Uninstall Old Trip+ 1.x in using the control panel installation icon.
2. DELETE Tripplus.ini in C:\SYSTEM\APPS\TRIPPLUS if you have an older
   release of TripPLus
3. Install SYSRAM1, launch PsiWin Installer and select SYSRAM1.SIS
4. Install AGENDA2, launch PsiWin Installer and select AGENDA2.SIS
5. Install TRIPPLUS, launch PsiWin Installer and select TPEN.SIS
6. Start the TripPlus from the EXTRA bar and create a new Database
7. Read the help file.


Oldest version of Trip+ :
-------------------------

This version of Trip+ isn't compatible with the 1.x version.
Sorry for this trouble !

Registration method :
---------------------

Trip+ is Shareware, there is no nag screen, unregistered users can
create only 2 Trips, 100 Stages, 100 Expenses, 4 drives and 100 steps.
This software has take time to develop, so please register.

To register contact me at ericson@pocketiq.com or ericson@club-internet.fr 
or http://www.pocketIQ.com
see my web home page for releases at http://perso.club-internet.fr/ericson

Legal stuff:
------------
Notice to users: Carefully read the following legal agreement.
Use of the software provided with this agreement (the "software") constitutes 
your acceptance of these terms. If you do not agree to the terms of this agreement, 
promptly remove the software together with all copies from your computer. 
User's use of this Software is conditioned upon compliance by user with the terms of 
this agreement.

The software is protected by copyright law and international treaty provisions. 
You acknowledge that no title to the intellectual property in the software is transferred 
to you. You further acknowledge that title and full ownership rights to the software will
remain the exclusive property of Eric Sebban, and you will not acquire any rights to the 
software except as expressly set forth in this license. You agree that any copies of the 
software will contain the same proprietary notices which appear on and in the software.

We do not warrant that the software is error free. We disclaim all other warranties with 
respect to the software, either express or implied, including, but not limited to, implied 
warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose and non-infringement of 
third party rights.

There is no liability for consequential damages. In no event shall we or our suppliers 
be liable to you for any consequential, special, incidental or indirect damages of any kind
arising out of the delivery, performance or use of the software, even if we have been 
advised of the possibility of such damages. In no event will our liability for any claim,
whether in contract, or any other theory of liability, exceed the license fee paid by you.

