                               JBResetM
                             Version 1.1
                           (c)JBSoft 1992-7

                                 Ё
                                 цд©
                               юбады
                                юд©
                                дды


Overview
--------
JBResetM is a program to help reclaim memory that can get fragmented
on the Psion. It works by closing down all open files (including Time
but not the operating system files) and then reopening your
applications again. The whole process should happen automatically
without any need for user intervention.

N.B. The program will close down everything so, if you have sensitive
data that must be saved it would be a good precaution to do a manual
save first. Most OPL programs do not answer to the System screen
closedown with a save - they just terminate instantly.

The program creates a small data file in the root directory of the
Internal drive called AOPENX.DAT (just to explain why this file
suddenly appears) but the file should be deleted again at the end of
the process (assuming it was not interrupted in some way).

N.B. Any alarms set in Time will be lost when using this utility -
     this is unavoidable as Time does not save the data anywhere but
     just retains it in memory. The same would be true of other
     applications that have cued an alarm in Time (such as Agenda) -
     these should be reset however once the application (Agenda) is
     re-opened.

Thanks
------
Greatful thanks to Eberhard Rompf for his help in making this program
work on foreign Series 3c computers.


Release History
---------------
1.0   First public release.
1.0a  Bug fix to actually delete temporary file
1.0b  Fix to cure closing Agenda memo files
1.0c  Fix to cure re-opening Link (if running)
1.1   Speeded up the closedown of applications without compromising
      data.


Contact
-------
John Boyce
CompuServe: 100014,1240
CIX: jboyce
Internet: john@jbsoft.cix.co.uk
                                                            6 May 1997