De3ender Version 1.12
Copyright (C) 1998 Mark Wheadon

Overview

De3ender is Defender for your 3a, 3c or 3mx - a fast and addictive
arcade game.  This is shareware - please feel free to try it out and see
what you think, then register if you like it.

Installation

To install:
	- copy App\de3ender.app to \App\ on your Psion
	- create a directory called \App\De3ender on your Psion and copy
	  all files below App\De3ender (*.wve) into that directory
	- Install De3ender using `Install' below the Apps menu on the system
	  screen in the usual way.

Should you be tempted not to install the sound files (the files below
\App\De3ender), then I suggest you install at least Mhelp.wve -- it's
small, and the game is a great deal more difficult to play without it.

Contact Information

Should you wish to contact me, I can be reached by email as
M.C.Wheadon@ukc.ac.uk, or you can write to me (Mark Wheadon) at the
address listed below.

I hope you like De3ender - please let me know if you have any ideas
as to how it could be improved.

Registration

Full registration details can be found in the on-line help, but for your
convenience, here's a copy of that information:

----------------

This is shareware that took a great deal of time to develop,
so if you keep it then please register.  Once registered,
you will be able to play attack wave three onwards, and the
adrenalin really starts to flow...

There are two ways to register.

You may register online using your credit card by visiting
my web page at:

        http://i.am/MarkSoft

Alternatively, you can register by sending a UK cheque for
10 UK pounds sterling made payable to Mark Wheadon to:

       31 Primrose Way
       Chestfield
       Whitstable
       Kent
       CT5 3QW
       ENGLAND

Enclose your name (clearly please, as it's used to generate
the licence info.), your address and, if you have one, your
email address.

As soon as I have processed your payment I will send you
your licence information.  All you then need do is select
`Register' from De3ender's Special menu and type in the
licence details.

Your copy will then be registered, and will behave accordingly.

Enjoy!  - Mark
