Warning: This program will only work from the Internal (M:) drive!


                         Convert V1.1
                         ------------

This program can be used to perform conversions between a
variety of different weights and measures. The program itself
performs over 128 different conversions! 

Installation is extremely simple. Just copy the CONVERT.APP
file, and the CONVERT.CFG file into your APP directory and
then select Install from the APPS menu on your system screen.
Choose to install CONVERT.APP. 

Operation is also extremely simple. 

The program will show the credits and then take you straight
to the Main Menu. From here you simply cycle through the menus
until you come to the Measure that you wish to convert from.
Press ENTER on this measure (or use the hot-key shown) and you
will now be taken to another menu with a list of measures to
convert to. Again select the appropriate one by pressing ENTER
or using the relevant hot-key. You will then be taken to the
Conversion Dialog.  

Here you must enter the value that you wish to be converted
and press ENTER. The Series 3a will then display the answer
and wait for you to press a key. You will then be taken back
to the Conversion Dialog for another conversion. If you do not
wish to make another conversion using these measures you
simply press ESC. Finally to exit the program press ESC at the
Main Menu. 

To change the number of decimal places move to the setup menu
and select Decimal Places. The program comes with a default of
2 decimal places.

You are prompted to enter the Number of decimal places. This
is the number of decimal places that the value to be converted
and the final converted result will be displayed as. You can
have a maximum of nine decimal places. Once you have set the
number of decimal places, you will be returned to the main
menu.  

Bug Fixes / Upgrades
--------------------

Version 1.0 released 1/1/94

Version 1.1 released 26/3/94

Fixed Centigrade / Fahrenheit Conversion Bug. Now converts
properly.

Decimal Place setup is now held in a configuration file, and
does not need to be set every time you start up the program.
Program comes with a setting of 2 decimal places. Decimal
Place setup can be changed from a new menu (Setup).

Registering...
--------------

This program is shareware. If you enjoy using it or find it
useful, please support the author by sending œ5.00 to the
following address: 

Nick Haworth
3 Petersfield Rd,
Duxford,
Cambridge,
CB2 4SF

If you have any comments/queries or suggestions for the
program, do not hesitate to write to me at the above address.  

* Ideas for the program are more likely to be taken into 
  account if you register the program! *

Thanx a lot! Your support ensures the future development of
Psion applications!  Enjoy!!
