QuickP for EPOC32 Version 3.41
(C) Eric Sebban 1999
ericson@palmscape.com or ericson@club-internet.fr
http://www.palmscape.com or http://perso.club-internet.fr/ericson

Thanks for trying QuickP for EPOC32

Installing QuickP :
--------------------
0. please check that agenda2.opx, appinfo.opx, music.opx, sysram1.opx
   don't exist in c:\system\opx or d:\system\opx, if yes delete them
   before launching installation (or use uninstaller in the control panel)
1. Launch PsiWin Installer
2. Install AGENDA2
3. Install APPINFO
4. Install PSCINFO
5. Install MUSIC
6. Install SYSRAM1
7. Install QUICKP
8. Start the program
9. Read the help file.

For previous QuickP users :
-----------------------------------
QuickP 3.4 database has a different format from previous version of QuickP,
to migrate from your older QuickP database to 3.4, please use
UpdTo34.OPO program located in c:\ or d:\ (depends of disk installation choosen).
Install and run it on the disk.

Conversion instructions :
For registered users, please don't forget your username and password,
Note it on a paper.

0) Do a backup of your project environments (project folders, quickp database).
1) Launch QuickP 3.4
2) Create a new empty file with QuickP 3.4
3) Click "cancel" in "add project" dialog box.
4) Quit QuickP 3.4
5) Launch UpdTo34.opo
6) Select your previous version of QuickP, enter your old QuickP Database file name,
   enter the new QuickP Database file name, click Enter
7) Reopen QuickP 3.4, you must retrieve your old datas in the 
   new database format.

Changes brought in 3.4:
-----------------------

* This software works now on Psion Series 5, 5MX, REVO, Series 7 and Geofox one.

* 2 new lists added : A time log list and a trouble tickets list.

* Duration in Events has been replaced with a end date and time

* Task sorting has been changed

* Import and Export Text Files.

* New toolbar added.
        
* "Orders View" : Task ref in this kind of list has been erased. You must use task ref to manage
workload in the "Time Log" view.

* Link symbol doesn't appear anymore in the different kind of lists for 
performances reasons.

* Help file has been entirely reviewed and enlarge.

* Sorting : All date columns can now be sorted ascending or descending. The same
for priority column or task ref columns.

* You can now modify categories for an item only with the 5th button "Set categ..."

Bug Fixed :

* Warning added when activate delete on a project item
* Category available now in costs list
* Root Directory for a project folder
* Stay on same line when using the change level arrows in Projects and Tasks Lists
* Apply filters on categ works now.
* Sorting on column FAX and MOBILE for contact list works fine now.

Registration method :
---------------------

QuickP is Shareware, there is no nag screen, unregistered users can
create only 2 projects environnements and 10 items on each lists per project.
This software has take time to develop, so please register.

To register contact me at ericson@palmscape.com or ericson@club-internet.fr 
or http://www.palmscape.com
see my web home page for releases at http://perso.club-internet.fr/ericson

Special Thanks :
----------------

Many Thanks to Fredy Ott who has fully help me to test QuickP on the REVO.
Visit his site at http://www.ott-net.ch

Thanks to Andy Clarkson (PLAN5) for AppInfo.sis include in this package.
http://www.twiddlebit.com

Legal stuff:
------------
Notice to users: Carefully read the following legal agreement.
Use of the software provided with this agreement (the "software") constitutes 
your acceptance of these terms. If you do not agree to the terms of this agreement, 
promptly remove the software together with all copies from your computer. 
User's use of this Software is conditioned upon compliance by user with the terms of 
this agreement.

The software is protected by copyright law and international treaty provisions. 
You acknowledge that no title to the intellectual property in the software is transferred 
to you. You further acknowledge that title and full ownership rights to the software will
remain the exclusive property of Eric Sebban, and you will not acquire any rights to the 
software except as expressly set forth in this license. You agree that any copies of the 
software will contain the same proprietary notices which appear on and in the software.

We do not warrant that the software is error free. We disclaim all other warranties with 
respect to the software, either express or implied, including, but not limited to, implied 
warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose and non-infringement of 
third party rights.

There is no liability for consequential damages. In no event shall we or our suppliers 
be liable to you for any consequential, special, incidental or indirect damages of any kind
arising out of the delivery, performance or use of the software, even if we have been 
advised of the possibility of such damages. In no event will our liability for any claim,
whether in contract, or any other theory of liability, exceed the license fee paid by you.

