Barcoder - (c) 1993 ACB Software


Documentation date: 31/1/94



This program is FREEWARE - no charge is made, just enjoy it!

Please distribute this package as a complete ZIP file with:

        BAACODES.TXT    - This text file
        BAACODES.OPA    - The main application file
        STDLIB.OPO      - Standard OPL routines used by Barcoder
        MANUFS.DBF      - Manufacturer database
        PRODUCTS.DBF    - Product database



To install:

Copy BAACODES.OPA to any \APP directory and install it from the system screen
with PSION-I

Copy STDLIB.OPO into the \OPO directory on your M: drive (internal)

Copy MANUFS.DBF and PRODUCTS.DBF into any \DAT directory (these are optional)



Usage:

Start Barcoder from the System screen. You will be presented with a dialogue
box asking for an EAN or a product name. Product names will only be found if
the PRODUCTS.DBF and MANUFS.DBF files have been installed.

        - To generate a barcode from a number
                o Enter its EAN (the number under the barcode)
                o If the product is not in the database, you will be asked
                        if you want to add its name and its manufacturer
                        - these will be added to the relevant databases
                o The barcode will then appear
                o Press P to print to the 3-link parallel cable, or S to
                        print to the 3-link RS232 serial cable - most Epson
                        compatible printers should work (I've tested it with
                        a Canon Bubblejet)
                o Press any other key to enter another barcode

        - To generate a barcode from a product name
                o Enter part of its description, e.g. "ballpen"
                o If the product is not found, you will be returned to the
                        initial dialogue box
                o The barcode will appear if the product is found, follow
                        the procedures above for printing



Notes:

EAN-8 and EAN-13 barcodes are accepted and generated. The printed barcodes
are machine-readable (this has been tested).

If a book barcode is entered, its ISBN will automatically be generated.



Bugs:

EAN-8 barcodes sometimes generate the wrong manufacturer.
Pressing "S" or "P" to print a barcode will generate a system error and exit
the program if no 3-link cable is plugged in.



Why bother?

A lot of people have asked that question!! A friend had a project on my HND
course dealing with Barcodes, so I borrowed the information and wrote the
Series 3 application. Someone out there might have a use for it!



History:

8/2/93          - Initial EAN information obtained, application started
9/2/93          - EAN-8 support added to EAN-13
11/2/93         - Series 3 version completed
11/11/93        - Series 3a retranslation started
30/11/93        - Series 3a version completed, with minor revisions
31/1/94         - Series 3a version released into the public domain as
                        FREEWARE



What's this STDLIB thing then?

STDLIB.OPO is simply a collection of commonly used OPL routines that I can't
be bothered to code into each application I write. Most other ACB Software
packages use STDLIB - it keeps down the code size of individual applications
if they can call on a standard library of routines.

If there is a demand, I'll release the STDLIB documentation.



What other packages are available from ACB Software?

- ACBDOS (to be released soon)
        o Command interpreter for the Series 3a
        o Allows most MS-DOS commands
        o Will play music and samples
        o Will display pictures, text files, etc
        o Allows connectivity between PCs and Series 3as
        o Allows E-mail between two connected Series 3as (!)

- IDES
        o Generates 48 x 48 S3a icons
        o Can grab an icon from a larger picture
        o Allows scrolling of icons in any direction
        o Has magnified and normal views of icon

- Chardes - character set designer (to be released soon)
        o Allows generation of .FSC font files
        o Can generate proportional fonts

- Julia
        o Generates Julia set fractals on the Series 3a

- Blitz (to be released soon)
        o S3a version of the classic arcade game

- Munchies (to be released soon)
        o S3a Pac-Man clone
        o Full screen


Note: the above applications are for the Series 3a ONLY. If there is any
demand, I'll dig out the old Series 3 versions and stick them on an ftp site.



Email contact:

booker_a%prodev.dnet@smithkline.com


