                      BROOKLYN SOFTWARE PRESENTS
                      --------------------------
                        BROOKLYN JOIN-FILE (c)
                        ----------------------

WHAT IS JOINFILE ?

	Join file is a utility that allows the user to zip several files
into a single neat file which can then be stored away. When the files
are then required again, they can be unzipped quickly and easily by
use of this utility.  Join File is very small (under 2Kb), and is
extremely easy to use, even for beginners.

USES OF JOINFILE:-

1)	Several files that must be kept together (ie.
for an application) may be zipped together and then compressed using a
compression utility (eg. MEGASTOR-available in all good shareware
libraries).  This saves the need to compress and uncompress them
seperately and provides a PSION equivalent to PKZIP.  Also the space
of a compressed file that has already been zipped by JOINFILE, is
less than that taken up by compressing them separately.

2)	If you are a shareware programmer, you can obtain the source code
of JOINFILE (see below for details).  You will
then be able to use JOINFILE in your own program to automatically install
the files onto the users machine.

INSTALLATION

	To install joinfile, simply copy the file into the \OPO\ directory
and run as with any other program.

FILE FORMATS

	JOINFILE writes each file to the ouput file in the following way:-
		BYTES 1-128	String containing the name of the file
		BYTES 129-133	Long Integer containing the file size in bytes
		BYTES 134-...	The File itself

USING BROOKLYN JOIN-FILE

	Use of this software is self explanitory, simply follow the 
prompts on the dialogs that appear.

WARNING

	Be careful to backup important files before using this program as
Brooklyn Software accepts no responsibility for loss of data due to
any unforseen software failiures.

LEGAL NOTES

	All rights reserved.  No part of this program may be used in
seperate programs without prior authorisation (see below).

FINAL NOTES:-

	To obtain a copy of the source code for use in your own programs
send a cheque of 5 pounds (payable to Brooklyn
Software) + a cover letter saying whether you wish to recieve the file: 
on floppy disk or as a print out to:-
			Brooklyn Software
			43 Douglas Road
			Hollywood
			Birmingham B47 5JY

	To obtain details of current or future Brookly Software products, or
to make comments or suggestions please write to the above address.
