Convert Application for the Psion Series 3a/3
To view this in NOTEPAD maximize the window and select 'word wrap' from the 'Edit' menu.

Thank you for ordering THE Convert Application for the 3a/3.  I hope it will make converting things to another format more easier for you.  It will convert almost anything to a different format.  
The Programs and documentation included in the .zip format or unzipped are all copyright.  This program is shareware.  If you continue to use it over a 15 day trial period, you need to register and send a small fee of £8 to the address included in this file (also in the program itself).  This will make me write more programs for the Psion computers.  The program can be freely distributed as it is with all the files INTACT.  It cannot be changed without the author's permission.  
All you have to do is:

Installing the program
The files you should have got will be either 'zipped' or in the normal format.  If you are reading this file on a PC in quick-view in zipped format, then extract all the files to the directories named below.
The files you should have got with your package are:
i)	This text file
ii)	The convert application for the Series 3a (\app\conv40a.opa)
iii)	The help file for the 3a version (\opd\conv40a.rsc)
iv)	The optional intro graphic (\pic\conv40a.pic)

If the file is zipped (in .zip format) unzip it to a directory on the pc and then copy the needed files (above) to the right places on the Psion.  If it is not zipped, just put the files in the right directory on the Psion.

Then select the Install option in the apps menu in the system screen by pressing enter.  Select Conv40a.opa in the file line and then press enter.  You should then see the Convert icon with Conv40a below it
Features of Convert
*	Over 300 conversions
*	Results can easily be selected as whole numbers or to any number of decimal points
*	Conversions are sorted out to categories to be easily picked
*	Hotkeys are available for each conversion
*	Results can be printed out to a parallel printer
*	Help screens are available at the beginning of application
*	friendly interaction
*	ADD ANY CONVERSION YOU WANT!!!

See HELP files for LOADS more details!!

Updated from 1.4a
Added better file handling on 'procs' file.  Can store location of 'procs' file if different location then the default stored ones.
Also fixed some spelling mistakes in menus and help file.
LOADS more - See help file in the program!

Updated from 1.3a
Does not run out of memory.  The memory Conv14a should use is 32K.

General use of the program
Use of convert will (hopefully!) be quite simple.
The help screens built into the 'Convert' application (3a only) will tell you exactly how to use the program in detail.
If you do have any problems with convert then please ring 01574 276946 Mon-Fri 4-9pm, Sat all day.  Email psynn83165@aol.com  My web page is http://members.aol.com/psynn83165/index.htm 
Source code is available on request.

NB1 Don't go too fast or you might press a key twice and therefore the program will bring you back to the result format screen or Select category screen!

NB2 If for example you are converting miles to kilometres you have to firstly convert miles to metres then divide by 1000.

CONVERT HAS OVER 300 CONVERSIONS!!! + ADD YOUR OWN!!
(Conv11c has a few less due to the restrictions on menus - the 3a can access the shift key in menus but the series 3 classic cannot.)
