
Pathfinder - v.01 Demo - Freeware - 26/9/99

Installation
Create "PATH" directory in the APP directory. Create "PIC", "TEMP" and "SAV" directories within it.

Unzip pic files to the PIC dir and all .OPA files to the PATH dir.

Install "path1.opa" from the system screen using psion-I, and TAB to find the PATH dir.

KEYS
Arrow keys control Malin's movement.
Enter is the Action button. Use this to:
	enter a building, climb a ladder etc.
	Initiate a conversation with an NPC
	cycle through speech boxes in conversation
	start and stop the skill test bar (see below)
The diamond key will bring up the Inventory.
Psion-X will take you back to the Splash screen

COMBAT
Pathfinder uses a unique Interactive Combat System.

Range combat
To initiate range combat Use the bow from the Inventory screen, when it is equipped. If Malin can has an unobscured view of the target then his skill is tested to determine the Attack Strength (AS). The AS is compared against the target's Defence Strength (DS) to see if any damage has occurred. Malin can then repeat the process.

Magical attacks such as the Desti Rune (see Essence, below) is handled in exactly the same way.

Hand-to-hand combat
Hand-to-hand combat takes place when Malin meets a creature face to face. The Combat Options dialog box offers Malin two choices - attack (with the weapon currently  equipped) or item (to access the inventory screen to equip a different weapon, or use a rune)

When a choice has been made the AS is established with a skill test and compared to the opponent's DS. If the opponent is still alive then he takes his turn.

Essence
You will learn about Essence as Malin progresses through the game. It is a force that permeates the biosphere of Orbius. Pathfinders are special individuals who are able to channel this energy to create light or heat. The Pathfinder's learning is divided into five disciplines. Each sect has a rune which Malin must collect in order the master that discipline. Malin can use a rune by selecting it from the Inventory. He will then be tested in his skill in that discipline in a similar way to combat so that his success can be measured. Malin can use the runes within combat.

To-do list
1. In-game Help
3. Error handling
2. More levels!

E-mail comments, suggestions, bugs, to:
 dom@dom-linda.freeserve.co.uk

More information and updates will be able from the website:
www.dom-linda.freeserve.co.uk


(c) copyright Dom Wright 199
