                                JBDial
                             Version 1.6
                           (c)JBSoft 1994-6

Overview
--------
Put simply, JBDial is a program to dial telephone numbers. If a modem
is connected to the Psion then this will be accessed otherwise the
internal speaker will be used. Once a file has been selected for use,
this name is stored and will be used the next time the application is
run. It is also possible to search several files at the same time and
also use 'Bring'. It can use phone card numbers as well so most
eventualities should be covered.

N.B. You should be aware that the modem working relies on the Hayes
     command set being fully implemented (i.e. ATX0 should stop the
     modem from checking for a dial tone before sending the dial
     sequence. If this doesn't happen then the modem dial will fail).

Installation
------------
Copy the program to an \APP\ directory and then, from the System
screen, with the cursor at the point where you wish the JBDial icon to
appear, press Psion-I. Select the drive that has the file on it and
select JBDial in the Filename box, then press Enter.

The program will show up on your System screen in the selected place
and can be run by placing the cursor on the name of the file and
pressing Enter.

It is possible to use this new file as previous versions (i.e. as an
OPO file). Rename the file from JBDIAL.OPA to JBDIAL.OPO and place the
file in your \OPO\ directory. This will allow the new version to be
run in the same way as the previous releases.

Usage
-----
On first usage of the program a dialog will show allowing for the
Modem and Card dialling setup. Please leave the Card fields blank
unless you wish to use this option. On further uses of this dialog, if
the Card fields have entries, this is displayed with a tick on the
left hand of the dialog. The number is never shown for security
reasons so you will have to enter the data again if you are unsure
that it is correct. Whilst entering the numbers they are shown though
so, if security is an issue, do this in a secure place.

The default settings for the modem are

     Reset: ATZ,ATX0
      Dial: ATDT

Whilst anything can be entered at this point you will need to use
something similar to ATX0 as this is what enables a series of numbers
to be sent using the modem without disconnecting the line. Failure to
use something like this will mean that only the first number will be
sent (be it the Dial Out code or the Card number or the Telephone
number). If the system doesn't work with the defaults then you will
have to read your modem manual to find out if it is possible for the
modem to dial without dial tone detection. The comma after ATZ is
necessary to allow that command to complete before another command is
sent (otherwise the second command will be lost).

The Number formatting line is set so that numbers are formatted by the
Psion (in a similar way as Data does this) or just used as shown
without any formatting taking place.

Choosing a file:
Once this data has been input then a further dialog asking for the
file to search will be shown. Once this file has been specified the
dialog will only be shown if Setup is pressed on the Find dialog. The
dialog also enables a build of a database of files to be searched (you
can Add or Delete from this file but only if the visible file in the
Filename line is a true file name).

Find:
The Find dialog is shown next and a search clue should be specified to
enable the search to work. This need not be a full name and the case
is non-specific. The search will take place on all fields and, once
the item is found, the numbers embedded in that record will be
displayed along with the data in the first field. For the program to
recognise telephone numbers there must be a telephone symbol in the
Label associated with the field but no symbol is required when using
Bring or the Redial log. If the file is open in a Data application
then it will be automatically closed to do the find and re-opened when
JBDial is terminated.

Manual Entry:
If the Control key is pressed at the same time as Enter and then held
down for a moment then the details entered in the Find dialog will be
used for manual dialling. Alternatively, if the edit field is left
blank, you will be taken to the Edit number dialog where you can enter
your number (this isn't quite as good as you will not be able to enter
names or Extension numbers on this second dialog).

Redial Log:
You can also access the Redial log at this point by pressing Ctrl-
Menu. This takes you to the list of numbers in the Redial file where
you can select the number to dial and press enter. Selection is either
with the cursor up and down keys or you can press the Number relating
to the line which will move the cursor there. If there is no entry in
the file then the option to escape or manually enter a number is
given. The file is automatically created when the first entry is sent
to it. If you do not wish to select a number then exit using Esc.

There is a menu implemented in this view with the following options:

Delete
will delete the highlighted number (as will Psion-D)

Information
Psion-I will display the information on the selected line

Edit
Psion-E will edit the information on the selected line.

Manual Entry
Psion-M will allow a Manual entry in the file.


Reverse Bring:
The highlighted line can be copied to another application (if that
application can use Bring - e.g. Agenda) - this only works whilst in
the Redial Log display and only works on the one line that is
highlighted.

Bring:
Alternatively a Bring option (using the Tab key) will bring
highlighted data from another application (e.g. Agenda and other
programs that allow the use of Bring). This can be in the format of a
name followed by a number - the program will separate the sections
out.

If the data found is incorrect the search can be resumed by pressing
Esc which takes you to an Action dialog where you can choose to Find
again ('G'), start a new search ('F') or Quit ('Esc'). Otherwise,
highlight the phone number to dial and press Enter. If nothing is
found in the search then you can specify a new file to search or
change the text to be searched for.

Dialing:
Once the number has been specified then the final Dial dialog will be
displayed. This allows a selection of dialling Out (with a <9,> or
whatever was specified in your Psion setup) or normally. There is an
additional button which allows the use of a Dial card - this button
just enables or disables this usage. Esc will allow you to escape from
this dialog without initialising a dial sequence.

Modem choice:
The program will check to see if a modem is connected at this point
and, if so, will use the modem to dial the numbers. If no modem is
available then the speaker will automatically be used. If the 3Link is
connected but there is no modem on the end of it the program will
hang. I have not been able to intercept this problem as it does not
appear possible to set a timeout for the link.

A series of dialogs will now be shown (depending on what options you
have chosen) allowing the different numbers to be sent. If an
extension has been entered after the Number in your database or in the
data for use with Bring, then an option to use this will be given. The
format must be

     123-4567 X4976
        ^       ^
     normal   extension

for this to work (the extension must be indicated with a capital 'X'
and must be on the same line as the telephone number). If an extension
has been detected then, after dialling the number, a further dialog
will show to allow the sending of the extension number.

On Connection:
If the modem was used then, on connection to the required number,
press Enter to disconnect it (this is prompted by another dialog).
Finally, a further dialog is shown that will allow a re-dial or
another search as well as the option to place the phone number into a
Redial log for further use at a later date - up to 10 numbers can be
stored this way. To leave the program use Esc.

Termination:
If you wish to terminate the sequence at any time use the Esc key - if
the modem method is in use you will be prompted to disconnect the
modem from the line.

Restrictions
------------

1. The telephone number to dial must have a phone symbol embedded in
   the Label associated with that field if using a database.
2. If the Serial Link is connected and there is no modem on the end of
   it, then the program will hang with an empty screen. You can only
   exit at this point using Psion-Esc.
3. The modem must be Hayes compatible (i.e. accept AT commands).
4. The speaker dial uses the setup resident in the Psion as set from
   the System screen (on English machines using <Shift-Psion-D>).
5. The file(s) storing the Data files accessed and the modem
   information is stored in the OPD directory of the default drive as
   JBDIAL.CFG - it is unencrypted!

6. The file which keeps the Redial log is called \OPD\JBDLOG.DBF and
   is always on the default drive.
7. The modem must be able to send a dial sequence without having to
   recognise the dial tone first and also it must understand the
   command <;> which returns the modem to the command mode after
   sending the dial string.

Thanks
------
The most profound thanks are due to Arthur Karpman whose ideas,
testing and driving force made this program more than just a little
toy.

Release History
---------------
1.2   First public release (previous versions were hard-coded for my
      system.
1.4   Increased potential size of Labels dealt with.
      Now allows sub-directories of \DAT\ to be used.
1.5   Implemented Bring.
1.6   Improved closedown and re-opening of Datafiles.
      Allowed re-dials and searching again of number.
      Allowed more than one file to be searched at a time.
      Changed program into an Application (OPA).
      Various small changes have taken place.
      Allowed International dial prefixes to be used.
      Allowed use of a dial card.
      Altered dial out buttons to mimic Data for choice of Dial and
      Dial Out.
      Extensions allowed.
      Implemented a Redial later log file.
      Implemented the reverse Bring in the Redial log.

Contact
-------
John Boyce
CompuServe: 100014,1240
CIX/Internet: jboyce@cix.compulink.co.uk

                                                John Boyce 5 June 1996