SNA COLLECTION MANAGER V1.0
---------------------------

Copyright F A Richey 1996

INTRODUCTION
------------

Installation

To install the program simply:

1.   Put SNACOLL0.APP in your \APP\ directory

2.   If you want to use the optional On-Line Help (Highly 
recommended) put the file SNACOLLH.OVL into an  \APP\SNACOLL\ directory.

3.   If you want to use the optional Print option put the file 
SNACOLLP.OVL into the \APP\SNACOLL\ directory and the file 
SNAPRINT.DYL into an \OPD\ directory (Note that this latter file is 
common to all my programs, so if you have more than one of them you 
only need one copy of this file).

4.   Install (PSION-I) 

The program will create an \SNACOLL\ directory on the internal 
drive for storage of data files. Configuration (and registration) files 
will be put into the \OPD\ directory of your default drive under the 
program name.

The unregistered version of this shareware program will allow you just 
10 Entries/Collection, and 3 Categories to see the capabilities of the 
program.  Following registration you will be allowed 300 
Entries/Collection and 25 for each of the 2 Categories.

Using the Program

Working through the <Menu> commands will show you the 
capabilities of the program, but to get the best out of it, the following 
description takes you through the basic functions and explains some of 
the finer details of operation.

Tutorial:
 
There are 2 ways to run this tutorial.  You can either work through it 
from the start, to generate some data files, or you can skip Part 1 and  
use the example files contained in DATA.ZIP.  If you use these files, 
put them into a data directory called \SNACOLL\.  Then jump to Part 
2 of the tutorial.

PART 1 - Generating data files.

To start the program, highlight 'Collect' under the Icon.  Now press 
<PSION-N> (New File) to start a new collection (Alternatively, you 
could just press <Enter> and accept 'Collect' as the filename).  For the 
purposes of this tutorial, use 'Records'. When requested select a more 
descriptive title such as 'Record Collection'.  Next define the Titles you 
want for the various fields.  For the purposes of the tutorial, type in 
'Title' and 'Artist' as the Names, 'Type' and 'Size' as the Categories and 
'Cost' and 'Value' as the Values.    Note that you can change these later 
using <PSION-Q>, (Set Preferences) and select 'Define Titles'.  

Once in the main screen, we now need to generate some Categories, so 
press <PSION-SHIFT-J> (New Type) and add 'CD'.  Then repeat for 
'Vinyl' and 'Cassette'.  Now press <PSION-SHIFT-I> (New Size) and 
enter 'Single' and then again for 'Album'.

We are now ready to enter some real data.  To do this, either use the 
Menus, <PSION-E> or just press <Enter>.  Just fill in an example 
record, selecting an appropriate set of Names, Categories and Values.  
Then add a few more, making sure you have a good mix of categories.  
Don't worry if the fields overlap on the screen, we will sort that out 
later.  Note that you can select 'New' as a category and it will 
allow you to generate a new category in the middle of entering the 
data.

Now use the same steps to generate a new collection using <PSION-
N>, and this time use 'Books' as a title, and 'Title' and 'Author' as 
names,  'Group' and 'Type' as Categories and, as before, 'Cost' and 
'Value' as the Value titles.  For the 'Group' categories use 'Detective', 
'Thriller' and 'Sci-Fi' and for 'Type', just use 'Hardback' and 
'Paperback'.   Finally enter some representative books.  Again, don't 
worry about any overlaps in the screen display.

This completes the generation of the data files.

PART 2 - Screen Configuration.

Note:  This Part demonstrates how to configure the default screen 
display to your requirement. For those who used the example data 
files, these have already been configured, but you may wish to follow 
through the tutorial anyway.

First, select the 'Records' Group, from the System Screen.  Now go to 
'Set Preferences' <PSION-Q> and 'Screen Display'.  

For the purposes of the demo select 'No' to the Info window, 'Swiss' to 
the font', and 'Large' for the size.  For future reference, note the 'Reset 
to Default' option if it all goes horribly wrong.  

In the second screen, select Title and Artist to be displayed. 

In the 'Title' dialog, select the Start Point as 10, and the Finish Point 
as 115.  Note the ruler at the top of the screen that can be used as a 
guide.   For the artist dialog use 120 as the start and 235 as the finish. 
Note that after each selection the screen redraws to show you the effect 
of your selection.

This sets up the screen as shown in the example data file.  In your 
case, you may still have overlaps, in which case you can adjust the 
settings accordingly.  Just remember that you cannot have anything 
less than 10 pixels from the left of the screen, so that there is room for 
the screen arrows, and that the total width of the screen is 240 pixels 
(unless you have an Info Window, in which case it is 204 pixels).

In this case, we are probably also interested in the total value of the 
collection, so use the 'Set Preferences' <PSION-Q> option and 'Total 
Window' to select 'Value'.  Also, it might be useful to have the display 
grouped by Artist, so use the 'Sort By' option <PSION-S> to sort by 
Artist.

Now select the 'Books' group, either from the System screen, the menu 
option, <PSION-O>, or just the right cursor arrow.

Now repeat the operation, using <Psion-Q> and the 'Screen Display.  
Set Info window off, small font, Title, Author and Group to be 
displayed as follows:

	Title from 10-100
	Author from 100-180
	Group from 185-235

and this sets up the 'Books' screen display.

PART 3 - Menu options:

To see the rest of the programs capabilities, just work through the 
MENUs.

FILE

New Collection
Open Collection
Save Collection As
Delete Collection
Rename Title

These functions are self-explanatory.  However, it does bring up the 
important note that you cannot change the filename of a collection 
from the system screen, as there are a number of other files which 
need to be renamed.  The procedure to be used is to 'Save Collection 
As', using the new name, and then 'Delete' the original Collection.  Note 
as well, that the left and right arrows will cycle between multiple 
collections.

EDIT

Enter Item
Update Item
Delete Item
Move Item Down
Sort Items By..
Edit memo

Again, these are self explanatory, although you should note that 
<ENTER>, <TAB> and <Delete> have the same effect as the first 3 
functions.  Also, the 'Move Item Down' option will only be there if the 
sort option is set to 'None'.  Also, to preempt the next obvious 
question, I did not implement a 'Move Up' option, as all you need to do 
is select the entry above and use 'Move Down' !   The Edit memo 
function is the same as the one in Agenda.

SEARCH

Find Text
Find Next Text
Find Date
Find Next Date

These options simply do a text search on the 2 'Names' fields, or a date 
search, to find an entry.

CATEGORIES

New...
Update...
Delete...
New...
Update...
Delete...
Set Filter

The first 6 options are self-explanatory.  To see the filter in operation, 
use <PSION-T> and set an appropriate set of categories.  The screen 
will then display just those entries matching the categories.

This also  demonstrates the basic difference between the apparently 
similar  'Name'  and  'Category' fields.   The 'Name' fields are free text 
and are searched via the 'Find' option.  The 'Categories' are pre-
defined and used by the Filter.  You need to decide how you are going 
to use the program before you decide which parameters should be 
defined as 'Categories' and which should be 'Names'.

SPECIAL

Set Preferences

	Define Titles
	Screen Display
	Total Window
	Entry/Update Dialogs
	Printer Configuration  (If Printer Module loaded)
	Preference Repeat

	Most of these have been used already.  'The Printer 
Configuration' allows you to select Parallel, Serial or File, 
the 'Entry/Update Dialogs' allow you to decide if you want all 
fields presented, or just those on the display and 
the 'Preference Repeat' option decides if you keep returning to 
the 'Set preferences' menu.

Register Program

Entry Information

Print Setup       (If Printer Module loaded)
Print Preview
Print Details

About
Exit

All self explanatory, although the 'Print Setup' includes an extra dialog 
to specify which fields are printed.

Hope all that makes sense.  Any comments on the program (and this 
tutorial), gratefully received.

Cheers

Al
















