To3
-----
To3 is a utility to convert a Series 5 Agenda file to a Series 3a, 3c or 3mx Agenda file.
At this time it will convert both Dated and Undated entries with an option to include crossed-out entries.

Installing To3
------------------
Copy To3.opo anywhere on the Series 5
Copy the 3.agn file to the C:\System\ directory
Copy the Agenda2.opx to a System\OPX\ directory on either drive

Using To3
--------------
Start To3 by selecting the To3.opo file and pressing Enter.
When To3 is started it will request the name of the Series 5 Agenda file to be converted. An option will also be given as to whether to include crossed-out entries.
When this information has been entered To3 will then convert the specified Agenda file to a Series 3 file. During the conversion progress of the conversion will be indicated.
Once the conversion is completed the converted Agenda file will be found in the Root of the C Drive. It is called 3.AGN.  This must then be moved to the Series 3 machine before it can be viewed. Once copied to the Series 3 machine it can be renamed as required.

Customising To3
-----------------------
The only customisation that can be undertaken is the template Series 3 Agenda file. The template is in the C:\System\ directory and is called 3.AGN. A template is installed when To3 is initially installed however this can be altered to one of the users taste.Create a blank Agenda file on your Series 3 in the style you require. Copy this file to your Series 5 and place it in the C:\System\ directory where the current template is located. Delete the current 3.AGN template file and rename your template to 3.AGN. Future conversions will then produce a Series 3 Agenda file in your style.

Acknowledgements
---------------------------
Andy Clarkson for his Agenda2.opx

Contact
-----------
In the event of any problems please contact me at: colin.shearing@btinternet.com.
The latest version can be obtained from my Web Site at:http://www.btinternet.com/~colin.shearing

