FINANCIAL PLANNER V1.3 (S3A Only)
------------------------------------

Following the success of my Home Accounts  program S3ABANK,  
a number of people have  suggested that I issue some of the 
optional modules as standalone programs.  This is the last of the
modules.  The others are:  An Investment Tracker, S3AINV3.ZIP, 
a Fuel Consumption Tracker, S3AFUEL3.ZIP, An Expense Account 
Manager, S3AEXP.ZIP and a Home Inventory  program, S3AHOME3.ZIP.  

This program allows you to keep track of an annual Budget for up 
to 25 different billing agencies (Phone, Gas, Electricity, TV etc.).

To Install the program, simply put S3APLAN3.APP into any /APP/ 
directory and install as usual, using <PSION-I>.

Now go into the program.  The 'nag' screens can be removed by 
registering the program, which will also allow you 25 agencies.  
The unregistered version allows you just 6 entries, to see the 
capabilities of the program. Working through the MENU 
commands will show you the capabilities of the program. 

The program basically works on 3 different levels:

Level 1.  To start, use <PSION-E> (or <Enter>) to enter a couple of 
agencies who send you bills, such as Electricity and Phone (The usual 
Update, Delete and Move options are available as always).   You 
can now move the vertical highlight to the required agency (either 
using the cursor, or pressing the first letter), and the horizontal 
highlight to the required month, and use <PSION-C> (or <Tab>) to enter 
the estimated bill (From V1.3, this allows you to specify a period rather 
than just a month) .  The bottom line will show the total for each 
month.  Note that, although it starts up with January as the first 
month, you can use the horizontal cursor to make any month the 
first to be displayed.  All the settings you have will be remembered 
between sessions.  Once a payment has been made, you can use 
<PSION-R> (or the Space-Bar) to show a cost in Bold as a 
reminder.  The default is for a 12-month display, which is usable for 
costs up to 999.  If you need more than 3 figures, there is an option 
to configure the display which, amongst other things allows you to 
reduce the number of months on display to prevent overlap.

Level 2.  If, like me, you run a separate account to pay the bills, 
you can use the planner to decide how much to transfer into the 
account each month. Press <PSION-W> to switch the bottom line 
to 'Transfer' and use <PSION-T> to put an initial estimate in for the 
amount.  Note that you can put the amount in for individual 
months, to the end of the screen (if you have less than 12 months in 
the display it will fill up the remaining months as though they are 
displayed), or for all months.  Now press <PSION-W> again, and 
the line will show the Balance for each month.  You can now 
increase or decrease the transfer accordingly, depending on how 
much in debt you are willing to go.  There is also an option to 
adjust the initial balance in case you are not starting from zero.

Level 3.  This is the fully automatic mode that I operate.  Use 
<PSION-A> to enter the mode once you have completed all the 
entries.  From now on, the present month will always appear in the 
second column, leaving the previous month in case there is an 
outstanding payment.  All future payments will be de-reconciled, 
and the bottom window will show the predicted balance based on 
the previous months total.  This total is shown in bold, and can be 
changed if required.  Once the next month arrives, everything will 
move one column to the left, so you continually have a prediction 
for 11-months ahead.

In V1.1, I implemented an 'Edit memo' function along the same 
lines as the option in 'Agenda'.  Just use <PSION-+> to open up a 
notepad to keep records of extra details, numbers and references.  I 
also implemented the status window switching using <CTRL-
MENU>.

In V1.2 I have implemented decimal places.  The only problem this 
generates is that of overlap between entries if you have too many 
digits.  I have tried to make the program sensible enough to avoid 
this, but if you do have trouble, just reduce the number of months 
on display until the overlap disappears.

In V1.3, I have implemented the capability to move the positions of 
the vertical lines, to design your own screen, and a 'Jump to 
Month' option.

If you find the program useful and wish to register it, please see the 
file REGISTER.TXT for up-to-date instructions on how to register.  
Apart from giving you a 'warm' feeling, allowing  you  25 agencies, 
and getting rid of the 'nag' screens, registering will give you access 
to full support and notification of  regular, free, updates.   
If anyone has any useful suggestions for improvements, I will 
always try and include them in the next version.  

Cheers

Al Richey
