                                JBJump
                             Version 1.0
                           (c)JBSoft 1996/7

                                 Ё
                                 цд©
                               юбады
                                юд©
                                дды


Overview
--------
JBJump is a simple program that performs the same action each time the
Psion is switched on - it will jump to a pre-determined application
and, in the case of the Agenda, will show in the selected view. It is
an advanced version of JBNag and will also open programs that have
been closed down and also allow bringing to the foreground without
automatically assuming a re-configure. A simple Menu has been
implemented to allow this.

On startup you first have to select if the application is in ROM or on
a drive. Once this initial information has been given you then have
the option of choosing the application to jump to - be aware that
JBJump must be running at this time and thereafter. You can specify a
file to open with the application or not (the file must include a path
and is probably best setup using Tab and navigating to it). At this
time you are also given the choice of allowing this jump once a day,
every time or between certain times. Unlike JBNag the program to jump
to does not have to be running and no account is taken whether it is
or not.

Choosing defined times will bring up another dialog that allows the
input of start and end times for JBJump to be active. If the Agenda is
chosen then an additional dialog will show for the choice of the
Agenda view to be made.

That is all there is to it. The specified details are saved and will
be reloaded if JBJump is closed down. Remember that the program only
works as specified whilst it is running.

Contact
-------
John Boyce
CompuServe: 100014,1240
CIX/Internet: jboyce@cix.compulink.co.uk


                                           John Boyce 26 February 1997