CHIMER v1

Installation
------------
Decompress the ZIP file

Copy Chimer.opa into an \APP directory
Copy all the .wve files into M:\OPD
Install CHIMER onto the system screen with <Pion>-I

Using
-----

CHIMER has two modes

1 Night Time Clock

This is a very simple utility for giving you the time in the
night without putting the light on to see your clock.

Run CHIMER as you retire and leave it running.
When you want to know the time, press the <ON> key twice in
succesion and it will blip the time to you. First the number
of hours then a pause then the number of tens of minutes.
e.g.   3:40 = blip,blip,blip . . . . blip,blip,blip,blip
Then your machine turns off ready for next time.

In the morning press <ON> then x to exit.

2 Background Chime

This clock will "chime" at a predefined interval, similar to a
good old fashioned wall or mantle clock. The "chime" is related to
the system clock i.e. five past, ten past, quarter past etc NOT the
elapsed time since starting. On the hour it gives a double chime.
To save battery life, after chiming the program switches the psion
off. Then back on again for the next chime.

It is NOT a background program. You will need to exit it if you
want to do something else on your machine. . . sorry.

When finished with it, turn the psion on then press <Psion>-<Esc>
while the clock and logo are on the screen.

Configuration
-------------

You can configure volume and sound type from the dialog box.
If you don't like my carefully crafted, soft, non-obtrusive
and sympathetic sounds why not record your own and replace my
sound files with them  (keep the names the same though). To save
disk space you can delete all but the default blip.wve, but don't
try to select any other sounds.

Acknowledgement

This program started as a 'rip off' of Steve Litchfield's HOUR
utility . . . but more refined and all my own code ! Thanks
for the 'concept'.

CHIMER is copyright D W P Brown and is freeware. It was 
originally written for personal use. I hope you also find it 
useful. It is provided as is. No support is provided and no 
liability accepted for lost data, damage etc. However, if you 
have any suggestions for improvements or bug reports please drop 
me a line. ALWAYS BACKUP YOUR DATA BEFORE TRYING A NEW
PROGRAM.

david.brown@dial.pipex.com
http://ds.dial.pipex.com/david.brown/
