Overview of the Series3 Software System
=======================================

[Comment by David Wood: This document was written inside Psion in 1992
but is still largely applicable in 1994.]

This document overviews the system software that is the environment
for application programs for the Series3. Further detailed
information may be obtained from the documentation in the C Software 
Development Kit (C SDK).

The major components of the Series3 software system are:
--------------------------------------------------------

* EPOC

A preemptive multi-tasking operating system with asynchronous
services.

* Window server

A server process that provides client programs with low-level graphics
services and overlapping windows.

* Object class libraries

Dynamic re-entrant object libraries that contain the classes that
implement, for example, such things as menus and dialog boxes that
make up the Series3 GUI. These class libraries are used by
applications written using traditional programming techniques and by
applications written using object oriented programming techniques.

These components provide an extremely rich programming environment
for application programs. In the right hands, this translates into
high quality applications that can be provided at low cost. The
system supports high quality in terms of application functionality,
the graphical user interface that accesses that functionality and the
robustness of applications. The provision of this support reduces the
cost of development and, because all this support is provided in ROM,
application code size is dramatically less than in comparable
systems.

Psion has long specialised in developing software with rich
functionality in small amounts of memory. In designing the software
system for the Series3, the primary objective was to make it possible
to write high quality applications with a working set that is
measured in 10's of Kilobytes rather than in Megabytes (as is now
typical on desk-top environments that support GUI's - such as the
Apple Macintosh, Microsoft Windows or X-Windows).

Although development of the system began in 1987, its roots are
comparatively young and it is built on a more 'modern' basis than
many desk-top systems. For example, the Series3 system has preemptive
multi-tasking and asynchronous services when (at the time of writing)
one or both of these features are still promised (but not yet
delivered) for the Apple Macintosh and Microsoft Windows.

EPOC
----

The features of the EPOC operating system are:

* Multi-tasking

EPOC is a real-time preemptive multi-tasking operating system. It is
a real-time system in the sense that it can respond to events (such
as an RS232 interrupt or the completion of a timer) within a
millisecond. Any process waiting on that event will immediately
preempt the running process provided that it has a higher priority.
A multi-tasking operating system is ideally suited to efficient power
management, extending battery life. EPOC actually stops the processor
clock when the system is idle.

One user-visible consequence of having a multi-tasking system is that
users are never presented with an icon that indicates that they may
not switch to another task until the application has completed the
current operation (such as, for example, the Macintosh wrist watch or
the Windows hour glass).

* Asynchronous services

With an asynchronous service, you don't have to wait for the service
to complete when you request that service. Asynchronous requests are 
commonly made on I/O device channels but EPOC also supports 
asynchronous requests for such things as inter-process messaging and 
timers.

Without asynchronous services, it is difficult to write an
application that responds to more than one event source. For example,
the Agenda application on the Series3 does not know whether its next
event will be a key press or the expiry of an alarm.

The provision of asynchronous events makes it easier to write
programs that always respond to user input. On the Series3, when you
are presented with a Cancel button, it always actually works (in
contrast to some other systems).

* Memory management

EPOC programs are written in the small model of the 8086 processor 
where the data and code segments are distinct. Simple application 
programs consist of a code segment and a data segment - both less than
64K and using 16-bit segment relative addresses. Because the programs
themselves do not access the segment registers, EPOC is able to move,
re- size, allocate and free segments (a bit like a software 80386). A
process can build data structures in excess of 64K in external memory
segments and programs of greater than 64K can be built using dynamic
link libraries.

The Series3 hardware provides a write-protect safety catch on memory 
segments other than the process data segment that terminates any 
aberrant process but protecting the overall system.

EPOC will extend an application's data segment to satisfy a request to
allocate memory from the heap and will also reduce it if possible if
that allocated memory is subsequently freed. All this makes for
extremely efficient use of the system RAM without requiring the user
to apportion memory in advance.

* Code sharing

Multiple processes of the same program share the same code segment. 
This is another feature that contributes towards the efficient use of
system RAM.

* I/O devices

EPOC extends the classic I/O system that allows for device
abstraction and installable I/O systems by providing support for
adding devices without a system reset and for devices that operate
through the machine being switched off and back on again.

Many I/O devices are built into the ROM - for example, a comprehensive
RS232 device and a parallel port device.

* File system

File services are implemented by a file server process that serialises
access by multiple processes to the local file store. The local file
store itself is MSDOS-compatible.

The file server also supports installable file systems. An installable
file system is used to implement remote file access to a remote file
server. Remote file servers have been implemented for the IBM PC
compatible and the Apple Macintosh.

* Reentrant function library

The utility functions that EPOC uses itself, along with many that it
does not (eg floating point functions) are accessible to programs.
They are all written to be re-entrant so that they can be accessed
(apparently) simultaneously by processes in a preemptive
multi-tasking environment.

* Client-server architectures

EPOC has very efficient inter-process communication services that 
provides good support for multi-process applications with
client-server architectures.

* Object oriented programming

EPOC contains run-time support for object oriented programming. A
sub- set of that support can also be used to implement code-shared
dynamic link libraries.

Application programs are normally written in C (using the Clarion
TopSpeed  C compiler). Programs access EPOC's services through a C
function library, PLIB.

PLIB provides a thin interfacing layer to the ROM-based services
(which are called via 8086 software interrupts). The ability of the
Clarion TopSpeed C compiler to declare function-specific register 
calling conventions is used to make PLIB even thinner. Some ROM-based
services are called in-line from the application code (ie without any
interfacing layer).

The PLIB library (and indirectly the EPOC operating system) is
described in the PLIB Reference manual in volume 2 of the C SDK. The
first chapter of that manual expands on the information given above.
See also the I/O Devices Reference manual in the same volume.

WINDOW SERVER
-------------

The window server is a system process that runs under EPOC to provide
client application processes with shared access to the screen and
keyboard. Using a server process to serialise access to a shared 
resource is a common technique. The screen and keyboard are shared
because the Series3 is a single- user multi-tasking system.
Architecturally, the same approach is used by X-windows (as used to 
implement GUI's for Unix-based workstations).

Client application programs access the services of the window server
via another C interfacing library, WLIB. These services are
summarised as follows:

* Getting events

The window server sends client processes events that drive the user 
interface. Event types include key press events (which are sent to the
foreground task), redraw events, foreground and background events.

* Windows

The window server supports a hierarchical system of windows.

Once created, windows may be moved, resized, made visible or invisible
or scrolled in any direction. Windows may overlap and any drawing is 
clipped to those parts of the window that are visible.

When areas of a window are exposed by the movement, change in size, or
the removal of other windows, appropriate redraw events are sent to
notify the application of invalid areas. The application's redrawing
of an invalid area is automatically clipped to those parts that need
to be redrawn. Windows may be assigned a back-up bitmap to avoid
requiring the application to process redraw events.

* Graphics output

Graphics operations include line and box drawing, filled rectangles,
text drawing with a variety of bitmap fonts and textual attributes,
general bitmap operations. All operations are written in assembler
and are optimised for speed. Drawing is normally directed at a window
but can also be directed to a bitmap.

The in-built fonts and bitmaps can be extended by external fonts and 
bitmaps. External bitmaps are used, for example, to implement icons.

The window server is described in detail in the Window Server
Reference manual in the C SDK.

The window server provides the mechanism for a graphical user
interface but not the user interface itself. Any number of different
interface styles could be built using the window server. The Series3 
interface is defined by object oriented class libraries - described
next.

OBJECT LIBRARIES
----------------

The Series3 ROM contains three object class libraries that together
implement the Series3 user interface and much more.

Object class libraries are better suited for providing high-level
functionality (for example, text editing) while traditional function
libraries are better suited for providing more primitive functionality
(for example, floating point functions). The current trend is for
more widespread use of  C++ object class libraries to provide more
productive interfaces to GUI environments. Claims of a six fold
productivity gain on say Microsoft Windows is typical. However, these
add-on C++ class libraries are still relatively immature and do not
currently provide the same depth of functionality as is provided by
the Series3 class libraries. Furthermore, the Series3 class libraries
are built into the ROM.  The Series3 contains the following class
libraries:

* OLIB

Contains classes that are independent of the user interface and of the
window server. As well as being used by the other two class libraries,
OLIB is used by applications for an application framework and to 
implement that portion of the application that is independent of the
user interface (sometimes called the 'engine').

OLIB contains an application manager class that runs a non-preemptive
multi-tasking system that is driven by active objects that represent
event sources. Active objects make it much easier to write structured
(and hence robust) multi-threaded applications. The application
manager and active object also support a structured and efficient
method of error handling with roll-backs to a pre-defined level. OLIB
includes active object subclasses that implement timer events and
inter-process events.

Several class hierarchies and object aggregations in OLIB implement 
dynamic data structures of all kinds, including many kinds of variable
length arrays, segmented data buffers and text storage.

Other classes include resource file handling and file management.

* FORM

Contains classes that implement on-screen text formatting and a system
for printing to any printer that is supported with a printer device
driver. Essentially it implements much of the engine of the Series3
word processor. FORM depends on the window server but is independent
of the higher level HWIM.

It is used widely by HWIM to implement, for example, edit boxes and 
indirectly by all applications. It is used directly by the word
processor and by other applications for text processing and for
printing.

* HWIM

Contains classes that implement the Series3 user interface style,
including menus and dialog boxes.

HWIM subclasses OLIB's application framework to provide an 
application framework (with support for error handling) for programs
that conform to Series3 user interface conventions.

There is a substantial window class hierarchy that is used both
internally and externally to implement 'model world' views and
interaction systems of many kinds. Some classes may be used directly
and some are suitable as building blocks for custom views (either for
further specialisation or for use in custom aggregations).

A large part of HWIM implements the Series3 dialog box system and its
controls. As well as providing abstract classes for application
specific dialogs very many of the commonly required concrete dialogs
are provided - for example, for print set up, page layout and for
presenting help. There is extensive support for file selection.  HWIM
also contain a gate class that provide access to menus and dialog 
boxes from non-object-oriented C programs (using the HWIF interfacing
library) and also from OPL (a proprietary in-built BASIC-like
interpreted language).
