                          Enigma Version 1.0a

              - A game of logic for the Psion Series 3 -

                Copyright 1993 Right Hand Software Ltd.

                  Email: righthand@cix.compulink.co.uk


1) Description

   Enigma is a code guessing game in which you try to deduce a 4 element
   code generated by the S3.  After each guess, information is provided
   to help you deduce which elements are correct.  You can have up to 10
   guesses and scoring is based on the time and number of guesses used
   to crack the code.  Enigma includes a comprehensive help system which
   describes the various game setups and options.

2) Promotional Software

   Enigma has been released as free software to promote the Psion Games
   Packs (Part Numbers 1603-0039-01 and 1603-0041-01).  Here's how it
   works :-

   Enigma comprises the main program ENIGMA.OPA and a function library
   RHSPBP.LIB.  ENIGMA.OPA is fully functional but the library functions
   used to save and restore game settings and process highscore tables
   are disabled.  HOWEVER Enigma will work with the function library
   RHSGPK.LIB supplied on the Psion Games Packs which enables all these
   features.  So, if you already own a Games Pack - Enigma is a fully
   functional free bonus game.  If you don't have a Psion Games Pack
   yet - go and get one!  There's some great stuff and along the way
   you'll get rid of the nags in Enigma.

3) Installation & Logistics

   a) Promotional Version Setup

      Copy the files ENIGMA.OPA and RHSPBP.LIB to the same directory on
      the same drive (any drive is OK) and use PSION-I to install Enigma
      to the system screen.

   b) Game Pack Owner Setup #1

      Copy ENIGMA.OPA anywhere you like and install as above.  When you
      run Enigma make sure the Game Pack SSD is in drive A: or B:

   c) Game Pack Owner Setup #2

      Copy ENIGMA.OPA and the file RHSGPK.LIB (in \GAMES\ on the pack)
      to the same directory on the same drive and install as above.

   Note - on start up Enigma looks for a function library in the
          following sequence.

          i)   RHSGPK.LIB in the directory where ENIGMA.OPA resides
          ii)  LOC::A:\GAMES\RHSGPK.LIB
          iii) LOC::B:\GAMES\RHSGPK.LIB
          iv)  RHSPBP.LIB in the directory where ENIGMA.OPA resides

          If none of these are found, the game aborts.

   Note - as with other Game Pack games (when used with RHSGPK.LIB),
          Enigma saves various setup options and highscores to a file
          called ENIGMA.INI.  If the drive from which Enigma was
          launched can be written to and is not a FLASH SSD, the .INI
          file will be created in a \ENIGMA\ directory under the
          directory from which the program was launched.  Alternatively,
          the .INI file will be created in LOC::M:\GPK\

4) Terms & Conditions

   a) Enigma comprises the files ENIGMA.OPA, RHSPBP.LIB and this file
      ENIGMA.TXT.  Enigma is copyright material of Right Hand Software
      Ltd. and all ownership rights are retained.

   b) You may use and distribute Enigma only in accordance with the
      terms and conditions stated here.

   c) You may NOT modify Enigma in any way.

   d) You may distribute Enigma only provided that :

      i)   All the original files are included (in particular these
           terms and conditions).

      ii)  NO charge is made other than to cover the fair and
           reasonable costs of distribution.

      Any other commercial distribution of Enigma requires a commercial
      distributors license - contact Right Hand Software Ltd. at :-

      4 Laybourne House, Admirals Way, Waterside, London E14 9UH, UK

   e) While appropriate care has been taken in the creation of Enigma,
      Right Hand Software Ltd. does not warrant that the software is
      error free.  Indeed, Right Hand Software Ltd. disclaims all and
      any warranties relating to the software.

   f) Under no circumstances shall Right Hand Software Ltd. be liable
      for consequential, incidental or indirect damages of any kind
      arising from the use of the Enigma software.
