I Searched the internet for something that did what this program does , 
couldn't find one - so wrote my own ! 

Primarily intended for use on the Psion Revo , all it does is quietly 
sit in the background and constantly swap the clock display in any 
current toolbar between the time and the Day/Date . Why? Well on my 
old Series 3 ( and the Series 5 ) it was possible for the clock to 
show both the time and the date at the same time - on the Revo because 
of the restricted space given to the clock in the toolbar this is no 
longer possible , I seem to NEVER know what the date is so I was 
constantly tapping the clock to swap between the time and the date . 
Now I have ClokSwp it 'taps' the clock display for me - every 3-4 
seconds switching between the clock and the date automatically . I 
have tried the program on a Series 5 and it works perfectly , but only 
swaps between the analogue clock and the digital one - I expect it 
would do the same on a NetBook / Series 7 but can't prove it . Either 
way no harm should come of it .

When ClokSwp is started , the display should show a welcome notice
and a clock in the lower right corner of the screen , this should
change between the time and date once every 3-4 seconds .

If you look at the clock in ANY toolbar you should see it also 
change from the time to the Day/Date every 3-4 seconds .
ClokSwp is now running normally !

While ClokSwp is running it causes some of the veiws in Agenda to
flash each time the clock display is updated , if using on the 
Series 5 it will badly affect the Year view , for this reason if 
the Agenda program comes to the foreground , ClokSwp will 
'go to sleep' and stop changing the display over , once the Agenda 
is no longer in the foreground ClokSwp will resume its swapping
action once more . It is possible to set the frozen Agenda display
to either the time or the date by pressing Ctrl+T ( time ) or
Ctrl+D ( date ) when the ClokSwp program is displayed . As this 
can cause the Agenda display to flash ( once only ) while the
Time or Date is brought to the foreground , you can set this to
Auto with the Ctrl+A command . Once set to Auto the display
will be frozen on which ever item was displayed when the
Agenda program came to the foreground , if set to Time or Date
then the display will be changed if neccessary then frozen
on the selected display while the Agenda is in the foreground .

Obviously while the Agenda view is displayed , tapping the 
clock/date display will manually change it over as normal ,
overridding any settings in ClokSwp .

ClokSwp is initially locked . This means that the System screen is
unable to close it ( displaying the 'Open Files' Dialog and trying
to close ClokSwp will show that the program is 'Busy' ) it will also
NOT be closed when a backup is performed . The reason for this is
that the backup program is unable to re-start ClokSwp if it has
been closed for a backup , so I was constantly having to re-start 
it myself. 

When a backup is first attempted while ClokSwp is running
( and is locked ) it will try to close ClokSwp a couple of times
and then continue with the backup , after the backup is completed
a message box will notify you that the ClokSwp.app file could not
be backed up and ask you if you wish to retry , if you click on
the 'No' Button then backup will not ask the same question any more
in the future . 

For this reason I recommend that you perform a backup
*****************
IMMEDIATELY AFTER 
*****************

first installing ClokSwp and

******
BEFORE 
******

running the program . In order to allow you to have at least one
backup of the ClokSwp program files .

ClokSwp is closed ( if required ) by moving to the program and
pressing the Ctrl+E , pressing Ctrl+L locks or unlocks the 
program ( once unlocked the System Screen and the backup program
can then close the program on request ) and pressing 'Enter'
hides the program and you can continue to use your Psion in the
usual way .

NOTE

In order to minimise the battery consumption to the absolute
minimum there will be a delay of 5-6 seconds from pressing a
key before ClokSwp acts on it , this is unavoidable . 

If the ClokSwp screen is displayed immediately following 
( or during ) a backup this delay could be as long as 30 seconds 
due to the lock mechanism filtering out the messages from the 
backup program asking it to close down .


ClokSwp is freeware , I use it on my Revo permanently ( I NEVER
close it !! ) and I have not suffered from any unusual growths,
injuries or data loss as a result . 
I cannot promise that you won't either .

Copyright Mark Stevenson 2000 mkstevo@nildram.co.uk

History :
( If you're interested...)

V0.1 May 2000
Figured out how to change the clock display programatically
and proved that it could work at all .

V1 1st July 2000
Released on the unsuspecting public ( poor things.. )

19/09/2000
Alerted to the 'flashing' Agenda displays problem . 
Asked for assistance via various newsgroups but nobody
could think of an answer .

Tried a few things which didn't work ; resigned to failure 
yet again :-((  (deep depression)

V1.1 28th Sept 2000
I eventually found a way of reading the program name and UID
of the foreground application , used this to freeze the display
when the Agenda was currently set to the foreground . No more
flashing to-do lists - Hurrah !

V1.2 19 Oct 2000
It was requested that the time display was set , when the Agenda
came to the foreground , rather than being a random selection .
I did this , adding the facility to select the 'frozen' display
between either time , date or auto . The reason for the auto
setting is that if when the Agenda comes to the forground , the
display is not as the user setting , the Agenda display will flash 
as the correct display is selected . When Auto is selected , this 
does not happen , the display is simply frozen showing either 
the time or date , whichever happened to be displayed at the 
time .

V1.3 22 Oct 2000
Proper menus and shortcut commands at last ! ClokSwp no longer
opens and closes immediately on starting , giving a little time
to explore the menu commands and read the keypress delay
warnings .
