Time Management                             Copyright (c) 1995 RSW Publications

Instant information. Sensory overload. Chronic fatigue. Buzzwords of the 90s.
The problem today is too much information and too much to do in 24 hours. We
work blindly chopping down trees without sharpening our axe and putting out
fires without turning off the gas. Does your schedule control you or do you
control your schedule? Are you truly the master of your fate? There is only 
one success; and that is to be able to spend your life in your own way. You 
don't have to work 50, 75, or 100 hours a week to be more productive. There
are secrets to working smarter. You just have to follow a few simple rules.

1) I'll be brief: KYSS. Keep Your System Simple. I've reviewed dozens of
time management systems. Many of them are good. Most are more than you need.
I'm not going to recommend any system. The key to effective time management 
is finding & using a system that works for you. It could be paper, dryboard,
desktop, palmtop, or just a good secretary. You may have to create your own.

2) How do you know if your system is working? For one, things should be easy to
find. You should be able to find any piece of information (paper or electronic)
within 30 seconds. Yes 30 seconds. You shouldn't lose things or be late. Being
able to accomplish your goals consistently is a sign that you have mastered time.

3) How can I organize my paper flow? First, print out LABELS.TXT and add any
categories you may need (people, clients, projects, etc). Post a master index.
Don't start a new folder unless you have eight pieces to file and begin one if
you have over 50. Never file paper you have on computer or can get elsewhere.
When in doubt, throw it out. Life will go on and you will sleep better at night.

4) How can the computer help me? Use e-mail. Buy a fast CD-ROM and create a
good reference library. Don't futz. Futzing is having to read the entire manual
(usually in Greek) just to get the machine to do its job. Ask an expert. Try
your 5 year old. Learn to type quickly (80 wpm) and learn all the shortcuts.

5) How do I catch up with my reading? Live your life on a need to know basis.
Choose one industry weekly, one good paper, and cancel your free subscriptions.
Rule of thumb: if you wouldn't pay for it normally, don't read it. Take a speed
reading course. Rip out the Table of Contents and skim any useful articles.

6) Be a problem solver, not a problem maker. Bad planning, wasteful habits,
and poor communications cost time and money. Try to think ahead, get help in
areas of weakness, and be open, honest, and receptive. Everybody has problems,
but having fewer of them frees you to focus on your top priorities in life.

7) I'm so far behind, where do I begin? Plan your work and work your plan.
Assign your goals into A (hi), B (mid), and C (low) priorities and rank them in
order of vitality. Focus on the top six in each area of your life. Break large
projects into manageable pieces. Be realistic, set deadlines, & stay focused.

8) Everybody wants my time. Learn to say no. Cut out the clubs, commitments,
and projects that aren't enjoyable or don't contribute to your goals. Guard
your time as if it were the most valuable commodity on earth. It is! Create
a work environment free from interruption and distraction.

9) You want more hours in a day? Give away your TV. Don't open junk mail. Use
bits of time to read, write, talk, play, study, brainstorm, organize, or take a
quick nap. Eliminate. Delegate. Don't procrastinate. Use e-mail before the phone,
the phone before a letter, a letter before a visit, and a visit before a meeting.

10) Remember the words of Ben Franklin, "Doest thou love life? Then do not
squander time. For it is the stuff life is made of." Find your purpose and
lifework. Master the science of time management so you can enjoy the art of
living a balanced life. Life is short, enjoy it.

Merrill Douglas summed it up well, in his book "The New Time Management"

    Purpose: 	Time masters focus, others spray.
    Info: 		Time masters know, others guess.
    Planning: 	Time masters proact, others react.
    Parasites: 	Time masters eliminate, others tolerate.
    Paperwork: 	Time masters simplify, others shuffle.
    People: 	Time masters help, others hinder.
    Procrastination: 	Time masters act, others delay.
    Personal: 	Time masters soar, others slump.
    Plans:   		Time masters coordinate, others complicate.
    Meetings: 	Time masters control, others confuse.
    Management: 	Time masters delegate, others accumulate.

The Social Readjustment Rating Scale                           Holmes & Rache

    Life Event                                                    Point Value

 1. Death of spouse                                                       100
 2. Divorce                                                                73
 3. Marital separation from mate                                           65
 4. Detention in jail or other institution                                 63
 5. Death of a close family member                                         63
 6. Major personal injury or illness                                       53
 7. Marriage                                                               50
 8. Being fired at work                                                    47
 9. Marital reconciliation with mate                                       45
10. Retirement from work                                                   45
11. Major change in the health or behavior of a family member              44
12. Pregnancy                                                              40
13. Sexual difficulities                                                   39
14. Gaining a new family member                                            39
15. Major business readjustment (good or bad)                              39
16. Major change in financial state (better or worse)                      38
17. Death of a close friend                                                37
18. Changing to a different line of work                                   36
19. Major change in the number of arguments with spouse                    35
20. Taking on a mortgage greater than $10,000                              31
21. Foreclosure on a mortgage or loan                                      30
22. Major change in responsibilities at work                               29
23. Son or daughter leaving home                                           29
24. In-law troubles                                                        29
25. Outstanding personal achievement                                       28
26. Wife beginning or ceasing work outside the home                        26
27. Begining or ceasing formal schooling                                   26
28. Major change in living conditions                                      25
29. Revision of personal habits                                            24
30. Troubles with the boss                                                 23
31. Major change in working hours or conditions                            20
32. Change in residence                                                    20
33. Changing to a new school                                               20
34. Major change in usual type and/or amount of recreation                 19
35. Major change in church activities                                      19
36. Major change in social activities                                      18
37. Taking on a mortgage or loan less than $10,000                         17
38. Major change in sleeping habits                                        16
39. Major change in number of family get-togethers                         15
40. Major change in eating habits                                          15
41. Vacation                                                               13
42. Christmas                                                              12
43. Minor violations of the law                                            11

There is a well-documented & clear relationship between life change & physical
disease. It is impossible to make accurate predictions on an individual basis,
as most of these findings are statistical. In our subjective judgment, we would
estimate that you may interpret your life change scores as follows:

Life change score for previous year:    Probability of illness within 2 years:
Less than 150  (low stress)             Low
      150-200  (mild stress)            30%
      201-300  (moderate stress)        50%
More than 300  (major stress)           80%

Stress Relief                               Copyright (c) 1995 RSW Publications

NOTE If you still need help after this, relax with laughter (see WinJokes.Txt)

EXERCISE Close your eyes. Breath deeply. Tune in to your mind. Breath deeply.
Tune in to your body. Clench your fists for ten seconds, then relax them.
Tense then relax your shoulders, abdomen, & legs. Remember to breath deeply and
slowly. Empty your mind. Close your eyes and picture yourself on a white sandy
beach, warmed by the sun and soothed by the sounds of the ocean and sea gulls.

MISSION To promote wellness by controlling stress, we have identified several
key areas of focus for improving existing conditions. They are awareness,
prevention, management, education, and resources.

AWARENESS Warning signs of stress include aches and injuries, anxiety, chronic
pain, conflict, dependency, depression, dishonesty, disorganization, emotional 
shifts, escape activities, family problems, fatigue, frequent colds, high blood 
pressure, hypertension, incessant complaints, inefficiency, insomnia, lack 
of balance, low self-esteem, panic attacks, phobias, poor decision-making, 
poor grades, procrastination, self-abuse, skin disorders, skipped classes, 
ulcers, and work problems. Stress is caused by poor diet, trauma, time
pressures, responsibilities, the future, to-do lists, appearance, weight, 
impatience, unrealistic expectations, lack of goals, feeling out of control, 
financial pressures, change, social isolation, perfectionism, poor 
communication, and lack of leisure activities. Stress prone personalities
tend to overplan each day, work over 60 hours a week, do several tasks at 
once, need praise and recognition, place over importance on grades & 
positions, be last-minute deadline driven, refuse to relax & enjoy life, and 
be too competitive.

PREVENTION Ways to prevent stress are being self-aware, knowing the symptoms,
being able to ask for help, being positive and optimistic, setting reasonable 
expectations, adapting to change, leaving it behind, preparing for class, 
getting involved, building strong relationships, managing time well, not 
falling behind, using outlets other than drugs and alcohol, understanding 
what "stress" is, feeling secure, loosening up, creating a stable 
environment, using a day planner, being honest, planning ahead, having 
spiritual values, and finding meaning & purpose in life. Stress is often self-
induced and based on attitudes or feelings about a certain problem or situation.

MANAGEMENT Methods of managing stress include cat naps, warm baths, good books,
interesting people, comforting foods, care packs, adequate sleep, mini-
vacations, self-talk, goofing off, frequent breaks, deep breathing, massages, 
humor, romance, sunshine, music, meditation, hobbies, sports, sharing, 
openness, imagery, laughter, dancing, letters, simplification, R&R, movies, 
rewards, walks, singing, concerts, and games. Methods for relieving pain
caused by stress include acupuncture, anesthesia, behavior modification, 
biofeedback, chiropractics, electrotherapy, exercise, hypnosis, PMR, 
medication, psychiatry, and surgery. If physical symptoms of stress
persist see your doctor immediately. Tactics for dealing with most types of
stress are based on changing the situation, the attitude, or the response.
Try simplifying your life. One should try to avoid stressful situations, to
accept those that cannot be changed, and to respond thoughtfully and 
appropriately to those than can.

EDUCATION Means of educating the community about stress include offering
seminars, submitting articles to magazines and papers, putting up posters 
(shock strategy or cartoon characters), placing reading materials in waiting 
areas (medical offices, restaurants, libraries, information booths), providing 
info through the multimedia kiosks, sponsoring a video series on public access, 
lecturing to college students and health groups, bringing in outside speakers, 
providing free stress reduction tips & resource guides, providing emergency 
hotline lists, printing up Bell South's Real Talk directory for distribution, 
contacting the Self-Help clearinghouse, creating support groups, sponsoring a 
health festival, taking the Total Person Program, boosting awareness and
understanding, suggesting stress breakers, and building relaxation centers.

RESOURCES Community resources for coping include Wellness Centers,
Counseling Centers, Medical Centers, free concert series, health clubs, 
athletic clubs, the library, city parks, intramural sports, pickup teams, 
hobby groups, religious groups, theaters, support groups, therapy clinics, 
help hotlines, career placement, universities, advisors, tutorial groups, 
seminars, legal, financial, and special committees. Check community and
college resource guides for additional information.

FUTURE A long-term goal would be to eliminate the more stressful situations
in the immediate community. These include the competitive atmosphere, lack
of teamwork, long lines, lack of social alternatives, local crime & violence, 
lack of support & guidance, and poor communications between government, 
industry, and community. While attitudes about current health issues can
sometimes be uninformed, they cannot be ignored. The reason for these
complaints should be identified and the problems solved. Also important is
to identify how people would best accept and use the above information.
With so much happening, it is often easy to ignore what is important and 
necessary to achieve a healthy balance. Teaching people how to gain
control of their time and their life will take a coordinated effort by many 
groups. Some are named above, but most have volunteers willing to
implement this multifaceted approach. 

BOTTOM LINE Stress is a part of life. It can be reduced, it can be accepted,
and it can be dealt with. By focusing on awareness, prevention, management, 
education, and resources; better environment, attitude, health, and wellness 
can be an integral and enjoyable part of anyone's life. 

Ergonomics                                  Copyright (c) 1995 RSW Publications

NOTE Repetitive Stress Injuries are caused by repetitive motion in a poor
working environment. If the environment is left unchanged and the injury
untreated, potentially crippling physical problems may occur in the hands,
wrist, shoulders, neck, and back; and could potentially be crippling. Chronic
fatigue syndrome, carpal tunnel syndrome, arthritis, headaches, backaches,
allergies, poor circulation, & blurry vision may be office related illnesses.
See your doctor if any such conditions exist.

MISSION To prevent fatigue, muscular discomfort, carpal tunnel syndrome,
eye strain, poor circulation, and stress. To foster health and fitness.
Constant work at the computer can lead to serious and permanent damage. 

KEYBOARD Keep the home row (ASDF JKL:) of your keyboard at elbow height.
Be sure to have a wrist pad/rest in front of your keyboard and mouse. The 
writing surface of your desk should also be at elbow height. Take frequent 
breaks, stretch, and flex your joints. Take a stretch break every hour. 
Create macros and use hotkeys to cut down on typing time. Think of ways
to better manage your time and ways to break up monotonous tasks.

CHAIR Your chair height should be adjusted for personal comfort. The seat
cushioning should be 1.5" to 2" deep. Tension should be adjusted so your 
chair will not rock back in normal sitting posture. The edge of the chair 
should not be touching the back of your knees. Your thighs should be parallel
to the floor and your feet kept flat or on a footrest. Add a lumbar pillow
for extra back support. Breath deeply and regularly from your diaphragm.

SCREEN Should be non-interlaced and Super VGA compatible at .28 pitch or
less. The top of the screen should be just below eye level. Be sure to sit
20 to 24 inches from your screen. Do the eye exercises in Personal Best's 
One Minute Miracle screen saver every 30 minutes. Use good lighting to 
eliminate glare and focus the brightness, contrast, and flicker control.
Mount a document holder on your screen and use a book clip to hold open books.
Don't spend more than five hours a day on your computer... You'll go nuts!

Make the Computer Work for You              Copyright (c) 1995 RSW Publications

"To err is human, to really foul things up requires a computer."
Murphy's 9th Law of Computing

Not since the dawn of the telephone age has an invention saved so much time 
yet created so much waste. The personal computer, originally created as a
tabulating machine, has eclipsed all expectations of its use. Today it serves
us in ways we would never have thought possible: in our homes, on the road, and
on our desks. But never has a machine created so much frustration, wasted so
much time, and caused so many catastrophes. There are effective ways to use
them and certain traps to avoid. Here are the best ways to use them:

1) To calculate. Accounting packages, bookkeeping systems, and tax 
preparation software can streamline your record-keeping. Financial analysis 
software, market forecasting programs, and powerful spreadsheet packages can
provide insight and help to avoid costly mistakes. The best systems will take
you through step-by-step and show you how to use them. Time-saving benefits 
include instant calculations, meaningful graphs, and stunning presentations. 

2) To communicate. Computer information services put the world at your 
fingertips. Faster than the telephone, because they eliminate the people 
principle, the computer can send documents across the globe, route electronic 
mail through your office network, or make your complete travel arrangements.
Your computer can monitor news & trade magazines and provide reports on 
your competitors and industry. Other useful services include paying your bills, 
shopping by mail, and trading your stocks.

3) To design and to create. If your industry uses computers, chances are a 
software program has been written to speed develop of your products and 
improve your sales. From creating a brochure and writing a business plan to 
designing the product and tracking the inventory, computers can take you from 
initial concept to final product quickly and efficiently. Smart applications
include features to speed repetitive functions and eliminate busywork so you're
free to develop your ideas. Make sure to invest in computer training and a
typing tutor. They will pay for themselves almost immediately.

4) To entertain. All work and no play make Jack a dull boy. Computer games 
can provide stress reduction and a great learning experience. Pretend your the 
CEO of a Fortune 500 company, test your skill against a computer chess player, 
or learn a new language. Special Interest Groups (SIGs) bring people together 
instantly from across the globe to discuss hobbies, recreation, and current 
events. Rather than spend the time attending conventions why not talk to the 
experts on-line and get immediate answers.

5) To plan. Computers can help you develop strategies in your business and 
personal life. For highly complex planning processes, the computer can analyze, 
schedule, forecast, simplify, and monitor all phases of a project. Eliminate
the yellow stickies, office clutter, and misplaced documents. Personal
Information Managers (PIMs) can track your appointments, replace your rolodex,
manage your contacts, and organize your goals. Invest in a laptop or palmtop
computer so you can take it with you.

6) To store and to retrieve. Why pick the computer over paper? Lightning 
searches, automatic reminders, and total recall of all your activities make the 
computer an obvious choice. Integrated word processing has provided us with 
powerful tools that suggest synonyms, check our spelling, review our grammar, 
and send personalized merge letters to your customers; all at the touch of a 
button. Including your signature. Databases provide an intelligent medium to 
track information on any subject. CD-ROMs can put an entire encyclopedia,
directory, or library at your fingertips.

While the paperless office is not yet here, an effectively used computer can 
double as a personal financial analyst, communications department, design 
team, entertainment system, right-hand man, and sales staff. And that saves 
you time and money.

There are several traps to avoid when using a computer:

1) Don't be a power user. Make do with what you've got. While new tends to 
mean improved in the computer industry it does not always mean faster. 
Frequent software revisions and hardware upgrades often mean more time 
spent installing, learning, and fixing the system. Before making the investment 
ask yourself if you truly need it or can do without. It pays to let others be
the first to find all the mistakes - the hard way.

2) Don't buy the wrong system. PC vs. Mac. What to buy? The Mac is easier and
faster to learn and use due to its standardized visual interface. The PC however 
has a greater variety of hardware and software to choose from and is 
becoming easier to use. Selection vs. startup time? You decide. Try to
standardize the computers in your office. Watch out for used equipment, never 
buy software you won't use, and pick the most popular hardware and software.
It tends to have better service, more extras, and fewer problems.

3) Don't forget Murphy's Law. "Anything that can go wrong will go wrong." 
Brownouts, spikes, surges, fires, blunders, & ignorance cause unnecessary lost
work and wasted time. This can be avoided if you build in time for protection.
Uninterruptible power supplies (UPS), surge protectors, and tape backup systems 
are well worth the minor investment. Save your work daily to tape and store
them offsite weekly. Remember, Murphy's watching.

4) Don't hire incompetent consultants. Too much time and money is wasted on
consultants who aren't qualified in their field. Ask for references and check
on technical competence, accessibility, and reliability. Find someone who
understands your industry who you trust to support your operations. Open clear
channels of communication and specifically define expectations. Bottom line:
A consultant should save time and money. Not waste it.

5) Don't read the entire manual. Read the getting started section and try it.
The best way to learn it is to use it. Have someone familiar with the package
go over the basics and be available to answer questions. On-line help and
telephone support is usually available and means you don't have to wade through
the manual for answers.

6) Don't use the computer to replace people. The computer was meant to be 
used for the paperless - not peopleless - office. This means it won't replace
your sales trainers, office assistants, or your boss. It is a tool to be used
to reduce the work load of your staff and increase the productivity of your
department. Though computers are getting smarter each day, they still need
people to make them work.

Get computer literate. It doesn't take much to learn the basics. Set up a
software menu. Have some fun. Use programs that make you more productive.
Computer are critical in today's world and part of life. Over 72% of companies
require their executives to use a computer. Don't be left behind.

Intuitive software and innovative hardware make computers easier to use. They
have revolutionized the way we live and work. They can recognize handwriting
and follow wherever you go. Soon they'll be able to recognize your voice and
act as your personal secretary. They are very useful tools and can be a lot
of fun. Practice patience and persistence. The rest is automatic.

R. Steve Walker is the President of Atlanta-based Protronics Computer Systems.
His company provides office automation and networking productivity solutions to
small & medium-sized businesses. Protronics is a full service company providing
software support for over 500 applications. For information call (404) 351-1055.

Windows Survival Guide                      Copyright (c) 1995 RSW Publications

F1	Help on any command
Esc	Clear a message
Ctrl-O	Open a document
Ctrl-P	Print a document
Ctrl-S	Save a document
Alt-F4	Exit the current program
Alt-F6	Change to the next document
Ctrl-F4	Close the current document
Alt-Tab	Change to the next program
Ctrl-Esc	Show a list of programs running
Alt-Enter	Show DOS screen in a Window
Alt-Enter	Lets you edit a menu item in Program Manager
Alt-PrtScr	Copy a Window to the clipboard

Ctrl-X	Cut selection and put in clipboard
Ctrl-C	Copy selection and put in clipboard
Ctrl-V	Paste selection from clipboard into document
Ctrl-Z	Undo last command
Ctrl-B	Bold text
Ctrl-U	Underline text
Ctrl-I	Italicize text

Double click an item to open or load it
Left Mouse button click	Select an option (same as pressing Enter)
Left Mouse button click & drag	Moves selected object
Right Mouse button click	Opens a menu for current object
Right Mouse button click & drag	Select an columns

Type "Win" to start Windows if not loaded
Type "Exit" at a DOS Prompt to return to Windows
Press Ctrl-Alt-Delete at the same time to reboot

Compliments of Protronics Computer Systems
"In case of futzing, call (404) 351-1055."

