Buy without packaging or remove for reuse.
Look for energy-saver appliances, computers, displays, and printers.
Use laser printers with low ozone emissions.
Use manually powered tools before electrical ones.
Use the print preview, print-to-fit, print-to-fax and e-mail features.
Allow vines to grow over windows on the hottest side of house.
Ask before you buy a product that might be made with CFC's
Ask local restaurants to use paper products for take-out.
Avoid disposable plates, utensils, razors, lighters, and pens.
Avoid food that has been irradiated.
Avoid plastic food storage bags and wrap.
Avoid plastic bottles, buy recyclable glass bottles or metal cans.
Avoid using paper towels.
Borrow instead of buying, or buy collectively.
Bring your own bag to the market.
Buy cleaning products that are safe for the environment.
Buy clothing of natural fibers that can be washed rather than dry-cleaned.
Buy locally produced foods.
Buy paper products that are unbleached or bleached without chlorine.
Buy products in bulk or with the least amount of packaging.
Buy quality products that will last and avoid "trendy" items.
Buy recycled paper products which don't use virgin trees.
Buy retreaded tires.
Collect rain water for watering plants.
Compost food and yard wastes.
Consult your local nursery about plants and ground cover which require little or no watering.
Contact your elected representative to mandate household hazardous waste collection if not available, and the development of safer, non-toxic products.
Do not buy freon, available in small cans.
Do without a clothes dryer at home or the laundromat.
Don't accept boxes and bags in stores unless they're necessary.
Don't buy from companies active in tropical deforestation.
Don't buy tropical hardwood products.
Don't let the water run when you aren't using it.
Don't purchase birds or plants unless you know they were raised domestically.
Don't smoke.
Donate what you no longer need.
Drive a fuel-efficient car.
Drive for high efficiency and low CO2 output.
Encourage auto centers which don't already use freon recycling equipment to install it.
Fight against the construction of garbage incinerators.
Find out what companies are persistent polluters of your water.
Get a free or low cost energy audit from your utility company.
If you don't have curbside recycling or a recycling center in your area, work to establish one.
If you have an instant-on television or stereo, unplug it when not in use.
If you must water your lawn, do it in the early morning or late afternoon.
If you use a dryer, use an energy efficient dryer vent or "recycle" the heat.
Install a faucet aerator.
Install a state of the art, low flow toilet.
Install a toilet dam.
Install a water-saving shower head.
Install solar collectors for water heating.
Install storm windows and doors.
Insulate your electric hot water heater and hot water pipes.
Invest in insulation, weather-stripping, and caulking.
Invest your money in environmentally responsible businesses, money market, or other mutual funds.
Join the work of conservation groups which are active in rainforest issues.
Keep your driving to a minimum and carpool when possible.
Look for water-saving washers and dishwashers.
Maintain and repair the products and equipment you own.
Maintain and tune up your vehicle regularly.
Maintain your lawn without using chemicals and pesticides.
Make sure your toilet isn't leaking.
Never pour toxic substances down drain, toilet or storm sewer.
Plant deciduous shade trees to protect south and west windows from summer sun.
Practice organic gardening at home.
Purchase a refrigerator which is CFC free.
Purchase fresh, unpackaged produce rather than processed and repackaged when possible.
Purchase motor oil made from rerefined, recycled oil.
Purchase organic food products.
Put shopping parcels in one large bag rather than several smaller ones.
Read labels and understand the warnings.
Recycle used motor oil.
Reduce the number of unwanted catalogs you receive.
Reduce the amount of meat in your diet.
Reuse scrap paper for scratch pads.
Save certain hazardous products for disposal by a professional hazardous waste handler.
Service your auto air conditioner at centers that use freon recycling equipment.
Set thermostat for lower temperatures at night and when you're gone for the day.
Share newspaper and magazine subscriptions.
Start a neighborhood tree planting project.
Start a recycling program at work or in your apartment building or coop.
Support Federal mandates for recycling programs.
Support an Environmental Organization.
Support candidates who run on environmental platforms.
Support real global security through disarmament and redirection of military funds toward developing ways to create a sustainable environment.
Support the livelihood of those living in indigenous rainforest.
Support the work of Conservation International.
Take public transportation, bike or walk.
Take recyclable garbage to your local recycling center.
Take shorter showers and smaller baths.
Talk about the issues with everyone you know.
Trade-in your old car battery when you buy a new one.
Turn off your water heater when you are away for the weekend, trips or vacation.
Turn your water heater down to 120 degrees.
Use cloth diapers over "biodegradable" disposables over disposables.
Use compact fluorescent lightbulbs.
Use energy saving outlet covers.
Use fireplace doors.
Use high-efficiency electrical appliances.
Use homemade alternatives made from easy-to-find ingredients.
Use mugs instead of paper cups, and paper before plastic or styrofoam.
Use natural alternatives for insect and pest control.
Use paper made from recycled paper.
Use rechargeable batteries and dispose of all batteries properly.
Use solar powered products such as calculators, battery, rechargers and watches.
Use south facing windows for the sun's heat, and blinds for insulation in the winter.
Use space heaters.
Visit a rainforest.
Wash your clothes in cold water.
When using harzardous products, use only what is needed.
Write a letter to the World Bank requesting that they alleviate the debt of those countries which promise to protect the forest.
Write letters to your elected officials in support of environmental initiatives.
Write to companies whose products you buy and ask that they use cycled and other environmentally sound packaging.
Write to lawmakers supporting higher auto efficiency standards.
Reproduced with permission from Seventh Generation. Recycle, it works!
