                "OPO Overload?" by Rick Andrews.

What do you do when you have lots of your favourite .OPOs taking up
valuable System Screen space on your Series 3?

I used to have that problem. (I've also had a few major problems;
well, four to be exact, because this is the fifth 'Slice' I've had.
The other four suffered the dreaded non-function function keys and
other defects. Its taken six months for me to get a stable machine.
Anyway, enough griping, this one's okay, touch wood, so on with the
article).

Most of my programming ideas don't make it to become full-blown .APP
applications. They stay as .OPOs, because they're smaller and I don't
want to clutter up the System Screen with lots of weird icons. Okay
then, your average run-of-the-mill .OPO lives in the \OPO
sub-directory in internal ram or SSD. So you get to see it from the
System Screen, and every time the system is updated, precious time
and battery power is spent updating the list of .OPOs on all drives.

To avoid this 'OPO overload' problem, I copied them into another
sub-directory, called \UTILS, because most of them are utilities. To
run the .OPOs, I simply select the OPL balloon, hit Tab, cursor up to
the root directory, hit Enter, select the \UTILS sub-directo . . .
hang on, this is getting far too complicated.

What I needed was a utility handler, an application that knew about
all my tools in \UTILS, and could offer them to me at the touch of a
button.

So here it is. A Screen-Space saving tool that can detect .OPOs in a
UTILS directory on any disk.

The design is quite simple. I wanted to keep the System Screen clear,
so it's a TYPE 0 application like 'Calc', with no list of filenames.
It has to look at all three drives; Internal (M), A and B; to examine
their UTILS directory, and it has to offer me a selection so I can
choose which .OPO I require.

The DIR$ and dCHOICE commands are really useful for those parts of
the application, but I needed to load in the .OPO once I had chosen
it, in order to run it. The LOADM command loads a module and the
@(name$): command runs it.

However, using LOADM gives one drawback; the main routine in each
tool must have the same name as the .OPO file in which it lives. For
example, my HexDump: procedure lives in "A:\UTILS\HEXDUMP.OPO". 

I'll leave you to design and save your own icon, it's described in
the Programmers Guide.

P.S. Don't you love palmtop computers? Its 2.54am, I'm in bed and I
can't sleep. And writing articles is much better than counting sheep!

P.P.S. If you people are interested in this kind of stuff, I'll send
in the code for my tools like DiskInfo, MapMem, and HexDump. Let Mike
O'Regan know if you are.

P.P.P.S. Did you know there is a drive called ROM:: in your Series 3?
And it contains a load of goodies, like the system fonts, the built
in applications and the Psion Logo from the System Screen. I'll let
you discover how to get there! (Hint Control-Tab, Control-Enter).

Have fun!
