    Tree by Rick Andrews

Tree is a disk contents utility for the Psion Series 3 pocket
computer. It is freeware.

This document is the user guide for the Tree utility version 2.02,
dated 4 April 93.

Installation:
1. Copy TREE202.OPA into the \APP directory on M:, A: or B:.
2. Install onto the system screen using Psion-I.
3. Thats all!

The TREE202.OPL and TREE.PIC files are the source code and icon
bitmap respectively, which are used to produce the .OPA file. In case
you can't guess, the icon represents a solid-state disk!

Freeware:
This utility is freeware; there is no registration fee to pay, and
you may copy the program freely. If you have any comments, find any
bugs or whatever, please contact me :- Rick Andrews, 164 Castle Hill,
Reading, United Kingdom  RG1 7RP

The software:
The following article first appeared in Ipso Facto, July 92 issue...

---------------------------------------------------------------------

Have you ever lost a file on your Series 3 - or rather, forgotten
where you put it? Or wonder why the internal drive is using 30K more
than usual, only to find two copies of your phone list lying around.
(Remember that sorted one you put into \MISC last week?) It can be a
bit of a pain having to play hide-and-seek using the system directory
(psion-*) command, even more so with the early versions of the OS
that don't have it! So I wrote this little utility to help. Here is
an example of its output :-

A:\
ÃÄDAT\
³ ÃÄPHONE.DBF
³ ÀÄMISC\
³   ÃÄTX.DBF
³   ÀÄWLIST.DBF
ÃÄAPP\
³ ÃÄZLOTY.OPA
³ ÃÄUTILS.OPA
³ ÀÄSUSHI2.OPA
ÃÄWRD\
³ ÀÄMISC\
³   ÀÄQUOTA.WRD
ÀÄOPL\
7 files in 6 directories.

Could be useful, couldn't it? Fair enough, it doesn't show dates or
sizes, but it is a start. You can see which files are where, how many
sub-directories you have and get a picture of the layout of your
disk. (Think you've seen this utility before? Its based on one from
MS-DOS, but that one doesn't show filenames.)

Okay then, how does it work?

It starts by asking which disk is to be examined, then scans that
disk using the OPL command DIR$ which gives the names of the files
and sub-directories belonging to a directory. i.e. the entries in the
file system.  An entries depth (how far down the tree it is) can be
determined by keeping a count of how many sub-directories have been
used to reach it. Both these bits of information are stored in
arrays; called gaName and gaDepth. (I use the 'g' to remind me that
the variable is global, and the 'a' for array.) The scanning a bit
time-consuming (about .5 second per entry) so the name of the
directory being scanned is "BUSYed" onto the screen, to let you see
what is happening.

The scanning is done recursively - that is, the procedure Descend:
calls itself. This is one way of ensuring that the entire tree is
checked, and also allows the array of entries to be built up in a
logical order, i.e. the directory, its children, and then its peers.

Having completely scanned the disk, the arrays are used to work out
the shape of the tree (ShowTree:), by comparing the relative depths
of entries.

This utility could be done with no arrays, which would reduce the
amount of memory required at run time, but this method would involve
repeated calls to DIR$ to find the entry depth, making it very slow.

Well, thats it! I'm going to get some sleep. Good night!

P.S. By the way, the ROM:: drive I mentioned last time cannot be seen
using the system directory command (psion-*). Try using Open File in
World (for example) to see the names (like Agenda.App). Don't forget
the Control-Tab, Control-Enter business to select the ROM:: drive.
Then you can use a one-liner in OPL like COPY "ROM::AGENDA.APP", "M:"
to copy it to the internal RAM drive where it is more accessible. Or
you can look at it with a file viewer like HexDump. (I'll send an
article about HexDump next time.)

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Please note that this version of the utility has changed since it was
published in Ipso Facto, in particular, it is now an application, and
supports printing to serial or parallel printers, or to an ASCII
file.

About Ipso:
Ipso Facto is an independent Psion Organiser II and Series 3 user
group magazine, edited by Mike O'Regan. If you wish to subscribe, or
want further information, please contact him on 0602 735482, or write
to Ipso Facto, 130 Stapleford Lane, Beeston, Nottingham NG9 6GB.

Keep PSIONing!

