		     Draw by Rick Andrews
		   Chocolate Island Software
http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/chocolate_island_software/

Draw is a graphical bitmap editor for the Psion Series 3 pocket
computer.

This document is the Draw user guide for version 1.02 of the
software, dated 8 July 96.

Please note that this software is shareware. (See below.)

Overview:
This application 
-can create, view and edit PIC bitmaps.
-is not limited by screen size.
-allows 'cut, copy and paste' to a bitmap clipboard.

Installation:
1. Copy DRAW102.OPA to \APP directory on any drive.
2. Install the application using Psion-I as normal.
When run, it creates a \PIC directory on the default drive, where new
bitmaps will be saved.
N.B.  An example PIC file named 'example.pic' is provided, which can
be copied into a \PIC directory on the default disk. This file was
created using Draw, and shows some of the features available. You can
delete it after you have seen it.

Usage:
Create files from the System screen, the same way as standard Psion
applications.
Move the graphics cursor ('+') around the screen with the arrow keys;
use the Control and psion key to increase the movement.
Use a shift key whilst moving to highlight areas as normal, then
delete to cut, 'Copy' to copy graphics back in etc.
Use Enter or Space to set a pixel, or select a tool using a hot-key
or the menu.
Selecting 'Icon' allows the top left 24x24 pixels of the bitmap to be
edited in a magnified window.

Menu:
1 - File
N - New file.
O - Open file.
A - Save as.
J - Merge in.
	Overlays other PIC bitmaps onto the current drawing. Move the other
	bitmap with the cursor keys until it is positioned correctly then
	press Enter to confirm or Esc to cancel.
X - Exit.
	Leaves the program, saving the bitmap if it has changed.
2 - Edit
I - Insert.
	Inserts a bitmap from the clipboard into the drawing. Position with
	the cursor keys, then press Enter to confirm, or Esc to cancel.
C - Copy.
	Copys the highlighted area from the drawing into the clipboard,
	overwriting any previous clipboard contents.
S - Save.
U - Revert.
M - Mode.
	Sets the Graphics, Fill and Text mode, used by all the tools. Eg.
	set, replace, invert.
Y - Style.
	Sets the text appearance. Eg. double height, italic, underline. A
	second dialog sets the font used. Can use the Spreadsheet TINY font
	if the SH3.APP application can be found in any \APP dir.
3 - Tools I
T - Text.
	Places a input text string onto the drawing in the current style.
	Position with cursor keys, then pres Enter to confirm, or Esc to
	cancel.
L - Line.
	Draws an elastic line. The current cursor position is the first
	point. Move the cursor to the second point. The line 'stretches' with
	the cursor. Press Enter to confirm, or Esc to delete.
B - Box.
	Draws a box. The current cursor position is one corner. The box is
	drawn with the diagonally opposite corner at the cursor. Move the
	cursor, then press Enter to confirm etc.
+ - Circle.
	Draws a square box as above. The height and width are kept equal to
	each other. When Enter pressed, a circle is drawn, with its diameter
	the same as the box. (The box disappears.)
E - Ellipse.
	Draws an ellipse. The current cursor position is the corner of an
	outlining rectangle. Size the outline rectangle as required then
	press Enter or Esc. For Enter, an ellipse is drawn that fits exactly
	in the outline rectangle. The outline disappears.
K - Icon.
	Shows a 3x magnigication of the top-left 24x24 pixels. Psion-K again
	will close this window.
4 - Tools II
F - Filled box.
	Same as Box, but filled.
- - Filled circle.
	Same as Circle, but filled.
G - Filled ellipse.
	Same as Ellipse, but filled.
5 - Alter
R - Rotate.
	Spins the current highlighted area clockwise or anti-clockwise by 90
	degrees.
W - Flip.
	Flip the current highlighted area across a horizontal or vertical
	axis (ie. a mirror image).
H - Shift.
	Drag the pixels in the current highlighted area. Pixels will
	automatically rotate around top/bottom and left/right. This is useful
	for precision positioning of large bitmaps.
D - Dimension.
	Change the size of the current drawing; it can be as large as
	internal memory allows. Gives a warning dialog if the bitmap will be
	clipped.
6 - Special
Q - Options.
	Allows user-configurable settings to be changed. These currently
	are: icon grid, bitmap number, and cursor type. (Bitmap number
	selects which drawing to load from a multiple-bitmap file.)
P - Pattern.
	Select which pattern a filled shape should be filled with. Eg.
	Solid, clipboard, grey.
Z - Status Info.
	Switches the status box on or off. Displays current cursor position,
	bitmap filename and drive etc.
/ - Update Icon.
	Redraws the magnified pixels in the icon window.
V - Version.
	Display Draw application version number.
* - Clipboard.
	Display the clipboard functions: view, clear, open, save as,
	disable.

Shareware:
This program is shareware and copyright (c) Rick Andrews 1992,1996. 
It is a 'Chocolate Island Software' product. You should have the following
files:
1. DRAW102.OPA - the application.
2. EXAMPLE.PIC - the example bitmap.
3. DRAW.TXT - this file!

If you find this program useful, or wish to keep it, please register
it with me by sending œ5 (five UKP) to:
 Rick Andrews
 Chocolate Island Software
 16 Alpine Street
 Reading
 England
 RG1 2QA
I will send you the latest unregisted version on 3.5" PC disk.
Let me know what you like/dislike about the program, where you got it
etc. When you register, the nagging "about shareware" screen will be
disabled.

Happy psioning!

Rick Andrews
email: rick@cix.compulink.co.uk
homepage: http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/chocolate_island_software/

