ASCENDANT IN ARIES 
You project yourself with intense energy and power. Disliking anything that wastes 
your time, you tend to act upon ideas the moment they are formed. Competitive, with 
an urge to excel, you feel the need to continually prove yourself through action.

Intelligent and versatile in the expression of ideas, you thrive on being known for your 
originality and individuality. You need however, to focus and concentrate your 
thoughts in order to bring them to fruition.

Tendency to choose a gentle and vulnerable marriage partner and if married without 
considering the factors involved, strife will be a likely result. Partner is likely to 
present a good image to the world. Your individualism will sometimes prevent you 
having many friends as you tend to be a bit erratic in your associations. However, 
you are capable of working well and establishing friendships within groups and 
especially with young people.

You have an innate ability to earn money because of your practicality and willingness 
to adapt to the methods of business or trade, although you have the tendency to 
dissipate your earnings on luxuries. Likelihood of conflicts developing and secrecy 
with respect to partner's finances and there may be a problem at some time in your 
life concerning a will or legacy. You have a constant flow of creative energy and can 
at times be very lucky in speculation.

Care and precision will be a character of your work, yet you will often leave tasks 
unfinished. This will be due either to your perfectionist tendencies slowing you down, 
or because your enthusiasm for the task has waned. Ambition is evident and there 
will be little fear of competition. However you may lack the patience needed to submit 
to others who could further your aims.

You gain a deep emotional satisfaction from your home life and are dedicated to your 
family. Your home will probably be very much your 'base of operations'. You will 
identify strongly with your children, wanting to be proud of them.

You probably have strong, dedicated religious beliefs and have a natural interest in 
philosophy and higher education. However you have a constant longing for 'greener 
pastures' and periodic fits of deep restlessness.

You possess an unconscious spiritual wisdom which is not apparent on the surface 
and yet at times you feel alone. Sometimes, unconscious confusion leads to 
problems.
*
ASCENDANT IN TAURUS     
You are essentially a reliable, careful, steadfast person of pleasant, hospitable ways. 
You probably have a love for the country or your garden and on the whole you will be 
contented with your possessions which will mean a great deal to you. Impulsiveness 
and headstrongness could be the cause of your undoing, but courage and 
decisiveness are your hidden support.

You think carefully and analytically, paying close attention to detail.

In love, you will be charmingly affectionate, but probably over-possessive. Jealousy 
and combativeness should be guarded against, and there is a tendency to be over-
critical of loved ones so they may become ill at ease under your constant scrutiny.

You will have a maternal/paternal attitude towards brothers and sisters, friends and 
relatives. In social matters you are a perfectionist, making sure that everything is in 
its proper place, scrupulously organised to the last detail. You like to associate with 
prominent and stable, yet unusual and ingenious people. You are able to express 
your innate compassion and sympathy, by being generous to, and by sharing your 
aesthetic appreciation with  your friends. However,if unwise in your choice of friends, 
they will often be a source of disillusionment to you.

You are able to express yourself through your financial dealings and through the 
structuring of your material resources. There is a tendency to make money from 
original ideas and practical thinking with respect to these resources. Also, you are 
probably not just confined to one financial outlet. Your partner will also be useful in 
your financial progress enabling you to profit through the use of joint resources. 
There is a strong likelihood that you will gain through an inheritance at sometime in 
your life.

You are able to work effectively with others in matters of service, seeking harmony 
and co-operation with your co-workers. You are attracted to power and status. You 
are often involved in group endeavours, or would like to be.

You like to entertain in your home, and generally those who enter your home will be 
treated with warmth and love. Your home will be a showpiece where you can express 
your creativity and status.

Traditional and conservative in your outlook towards religion and philosophy your 
progress in this direction is often marred by your attachment to the material.
*
ASCENDANT IN GEMINI     
Mental and physical restlessness will be a part of your life, so much so, that you will 
probably always be travelling around here and there for pleasure, creative purpose or 
financial gain. In fact, if you are able to combine all these reasons into a journey you 
will be very pleased with yourself. Self-undoing may stem from your unconscious 
materialistic desires.

You are an original and creative thinker with the power to visualise your ideas and 
express them intellectually. You probably invest a great deal of energy in creative 
thinking and often think in large and dramatic terms.

You are likely to have lots of friends and acquaintances and probably derive great 
aesthetic pleasure from all forms of social activity.

Marriage will probably be lucky for you.

You instinctively know what others need for growth and nourishment, and by 
responding to these needs, you have the capacity to make money. In fact you will 
often make money through your adaptability and receptiveness to the people around 
you. Your emotional and financial affairs are likely to be interrelated.

You have a need to regenerate yourself through work and service to others, 
especially your family. Good relations with the general public is likely, however, you 
possibly tend to be a bit dreamy and not always practical with regard to your work 
and public reputation, often being elusive and 'hard to pin down' in professional 
matters. There is probably some element of mystery in your professional activity.

You like to render service to your family and will be fastidious and discerning in the 
home.

The expression or repression of your desires will strongly influence your health, and 
so there is a necessity to use your mind in such a way as to improve your health. 
Only by making your ideas effective in a practical way, can you transform yourself 
and create new starts in life.

To have the tendency to be progressive, unusual, and free thinking in matters to do 
with religion, philosophy and higher education.
*
ASCENDANT IN CANCER     
You have a tendency to be an emotionally volatile person, as you expend a great 
deal of energy through your feelings, which are romantic and dramatic in their 
expression. A capacity for acting is shown.

You have a need to be precise in speech, letter writing and in the formation of ideas. 
These ideas nearly always being practical and workable. Your hidden support comes 
from your ability to keep your ideas secret, thus providing your own impetus for 
growth. Problems could arise however, from a self-destructive habit of discussing 
emotional problems, verbalising what should remain concealed.

You will have a tendency to be cautious and reserved in forming partnerships and to 
be rather shy in public. There will be a dislike for large crowds. Once a relationship is 
formed, you will be extremely sensual in your romantic life, but you will have a 
tendency to be jealous of loved ones.

You are best able to earn money if placed in some position of authority. Earning 
money in this manner enables you to express power. However, once earned, you will 
wish your money to be used for your children, family and home.

You have an instinctive need to work hard, indeed you will channel an immense 
amount of energy into your jobs. However, if employed, you can easily be hurt by 
harsh or unfair treatment from those in authority. You will be happiest in a job which 
will allow you freedom to follow your own inspirations. You work hard and selflessly 
for all, believing that by helping one, you help all.

You identify strongly with your family and with familial concerns. You consider the 
family to be a partnership, insisting on strict justice for all members, otherwise 
emotional problems arise, putting everything out of balance, affecting the peace of 
the household.

Your children may be subjected to intense emotionality, and although you are very 
generous towards your children, excessive concern may lead to domination if not 
properly controlled.

As you are naturally generous in helping others, your spiritual self is able to mature 
through service. You understand the power of positive thinking. Religion of some sort 
will probably play an important role in your life. Whether or not you practice a religion, 
inner beliefs will probably have a mystical connotation, and insights that seem to 
come from heaven may help to solve many problems. You are probably quite 
interested in the spiritual side of life.
*
ASCENDANT IN LEO        
You will project yourself with dignity, energy and will. However, being so determined 
to express yourself whenever you see fit, you sometimes enter into, and dominate 
situations without being invited. Although you appear strong and unaffected by 
criticism, underneath, you are actually quite moody and emotionally vulnerable. If 
rejected or rebuffed, you will rarely show how deeply hurt you are. You enjoy creating 
an image of altruism and to live in luxury is one of your aims. You need to be 'king of 
your castle' with all the trappings that go with your 'royal' status.

You will express your ideas gracefully.

You are friendly, just and outwardly altruistic towards brothers, sisters, friends and 
neighbours. You choose friends who are intelligent and ingenious and whose ideas 
can help you achieve what you desire. You will cultivate diversity and intellectual 
stimulation in your friendships.

Within your partnerships, you like to be free, but find it difficult to accord the same 
level of freedom which you give to yourself, to your partner. You have a compulsive 
need to know what your loved ones are 'up to' at all times.

You have a tendency to be exacting when it comes to money matters. Your primary 
motivation for earning money is to achieve and support a high standard of living, 
which you feel, should be yours almost by right.

About work, you are intensely serious, and anyone who scoffs at your endeavours 
will be given short shrift. When you work, you work hard in an organised way.

Home will be extremely important to you. It is your 'den', where you can be 
undisputed king. It is in your nature to do a lot of 'growling' around your family, but 
feel that the privilege to 'growl' is confined to yourself. Should an outsider step on the 
toes of any member of your family,they would soon wish they hadn't when you are 
around. You feel it is important to provide the best for your children, even to the 
extent of spoiling them.

You have a love of drama, especially if it has religious or philosophical connotations, 
as they give you insights into life's significance. You instinctively know that all things 
originate in the Eternal. As a result, you probably do not wish to be suppressed by 
traditional religious forms. You will tend to be a crusader for your ideals if you feel 
strongly enough about them. Your home is the ideal place for spiritual contemplation 
and soul searching, as there you are able to find the seclusion and privacy to be who 
you are.
*
ASCENDANT IN VIRGO      
You possess strength of character which is not always apparent until tested. Depth of 
willpower is your hidden support, whilst problems may arise from pride and hidden 
egotism.The serious and the contemplative will bring you much pleasure. You have 
an inner desire to leave your mark on the world, to be remembered for your genius.

You have a mental acuteness which is best expressed in practical affairs. Systematic 
and well organised when developing and executing ideas, no detail is too small for 
you to notice or explain. You strive for perfection. Your success in this is due to your 
careful attention to the fine points and details which are often overlooked by others. 
Energetic, resourceful, and creative in thought, succinctness and frankness 
characterise your speech and communication. Words well said, are beautiful music to 
your ears.

A little prudish concerning sex and romance, you may appear to be a little cold, whilst 
in fact you are  quite highly sexed. You have a tendency to attract people who are not 
so highly organised as yourself. Your partner will enhance your human 
understanding and emotional involvement, and may well be the avenue by which you 
expand into new fields.

Friends will be treated as family members, and you develop unusually strong 
emotional attachments to them, as well as to any groups or organisations to which 
you may belong.

Although you have the ability to attract the money necessary to provide the good 
things in life, your pattern of acquiring these things is irregular, since you tend to 
alternate between periods of frugality and extravagance. You insist on the just 
handling of finances. As you will tend to become involved in ventures with a partner, 
disagreements may arise over matters relating to joint finances. You will be cautious 
in the realm of speculation and rarely enter into "wildcat" schemes.

You will be happiest in a job which will allow you to be creative, utilising both your 
mind and hands to implement your original ideas. Throughout the course of your life, 
you will probably become involved in several different professions. The field of 
communication will be especially attractive to you. Since opportunity to regenerate 
your life comes through your ability to take decisive action, your pattern in life is to 
initiate projects, as well as to complete those already begun by others.

You treat co-workers as friends and enjoy group projects, provided that all group 
members are willing to see the project through to the end. Otherwise you tend to lose 
interest.

Space and comfort will be important to you at home, with a place for everything and 
everything in its place. Visitors will be generously treated.

You take a down to earth view of social concepts, religion and spiritual matters, the 
philosophy of which is probably based upon the beautiful and the practical. You will 
be unlikely to change your views easily on these subjects.
*
ASCENDANT IN LIBRA      
You have a strong sense of justice. The ability to see any matter from the other 
person's viewpoint is one of your strongest virtues. This can have the awkward effect 
however, of making you 'sit on the fence', unable to make difficult decisions. Most of 
your endeavours will be well planned and organised, as you have an ability to devote 
meticulous attention to the secondary details that others may well overlook. Problems 
may arise however, by worry and nagging over trivial points. A great source of 
pleasure comes from the study of unique things, friends and group activities.

You are philosophic and visionary in the expression of thoughts and ideas. 
Communication of all sorts will be important to you throughout your life.

You probably hate to be alone, and feel lost when forced to rely totally upon yourself. 
Your individuality needs to project itself through co-operation with others.To feel 
whole, you need your "other half!" You can be aggressive in order to gain the co-
operation and attention of others. You also have the power to motivate others into 
action without their being aware of it. Your partner will probably come to understand 
that, if he/she wants a peacefull life, they must maintain a high level of activity and 
work hard.

There is a need to establish an external source of strength and security, therefore 
you will cultivate friends through whom you can project your own creative self-
expression.

Resourceful and energetic in your means of making money, you have the ability to 
transform worthless materials into things of real value. However, you have the 
tendency to spend the money earned from your ingenuity at a rapid rate. 
Nevertheless you are more concerned with the aesthetic value of your possessions 
rather than their monetary value. You will co-operate to help your partner earn money 
and you have the power to generate money from sources unknown to others.

In matters of work and service, circumstances in your life will often demand your 
unselfish devotion. Sometimes you may assume more work than you can effectively 
handle, thereby creating confusion and problems. You are very sensitive to your 
reputation and standing in the world and it is important to you, that you be considered 
responsible and respectable in the eyes of the others.

Since you desire everything to be in its proper place, you will be a great disciplinarian 
and household organiser. However, nothing is ever systemised to your satisfaction. 
Much work and responsibility will be concentrated in your home, which you probably 
wish, to be recognised as contributing to the life of the community.

Your children will be a peculiar mixture of originality and mental discipline, but 
perhaps not as physically strong as the will they possess.

Your health is very dependant upon your emotional well being.

Concerned with religion and social values you rate ideas in terms of their usefulness 
in the larger social order. For you, religion and philosophy should be practical in their 
application and logically comprehensible.
*
ASCENDANT IN SCORPIO    
You project yourself to the world with energy and willpower, and you are willing to 
stake your life to accomplish an important aim, or when defending a cherished 
principle. Once your mind is made up, it is futile for anyone to try to convince you that 
something cannot be done.

You strengthen your objectives with a tremendous, fixed, emotional intensity. You 
have the ability to draw upon hidden sources of power to attain your ends.

Careful in the expression of thoughts, you never say or write anything unless there is 
a definite reason for doing so. You are innately secretive. Since your words tend to 
be carefully calculated for maximum impact, problems may arise through others 
finding you harsh and exacting in your speech. Your sting tends to be in your tongue! 
You are intellectually interested in the mysterious.

You are surprisingly sentimental in affairs of the heart, serving your loved ones 
without thought of self. You will exert yourself for your friends, especially if they need 
your help. However, you expect the aided individual to absorb from you, the strength 
and self-sufficiency needed to carry on unaided. Rather than visit friends, you prefer 
that they visit you.

Generally, you can expect good fortune in financial matters. You are able to expand 
your activities through money, which, most of the time, will be adequate to further 
your aims.

You are able to tackle tasks that would seem impossible to others. You are probably 
ambitious in your profession. It is possible for you to achieve positions of leadership 
and authority, or to be admired for your accomplishments.

There may be something unusual, distinctive or out of the ordinary about your home 
or family or both.

Emotional and tenacious in the areas of religion and philosophy, you have foresight 
by means of a kind of 'psychic perception'. It is likely that you cling to the 'family' 
religion.
*
ASCENDANT IN SAGITTARIUS
You present yourself to the world with optimism, appearing friendly, interested and 
jovial. However you have a tendency to take things for granted and to think solely in 
terms of your own affairs and frames of reference. Nevertheless, your optimism is a 
source of inspiration to those with whom you have contact. You expend a great deal 
of energy in creative activity. Your hidden support is in your resourcefulness. You are 
able to perceive as valuable, things that others have overlooked. You also know how 
to cultivate hidden talents in others. Problems may arise from a harbouring of hidden 
resentments or secrets.

You have the ability to communicate your ideas in exciting and ingenious ways. 
Although your ideas tend to arrive in flashes of inspiration they are usually suitable 
for practical application, based on values that have stood the test of time. You think 
in humanitarian terms.

You are likely to be passionate and aggressive in the realm of love and romance. 
Primarily somewhat of a loner, you attract people who are intelligent and versatile, 
and who can aid you in practical ways. A likely marriage partner would be a friend, a 
friend of a friend or a friend of long standing. In public, you prefer to have yourself 
and ideas represented by your partner. Despite this, you can be very astute when it 
comes to public relations.

Practical, responsible and ambitious concerning money, you do not spend foolishly, 
feeling it should be used for things of lasting value. You are often quite frugal. In joint 
finances, your partner probably earns the money which you then use to bring about 
your joint betterment.

Work for you, should be practical in its nature. If monetary gain is in prospect, you will 
work extremely hard. In your spare time, you enjoy projects which are beautiful, 
artistic and functional. At work, you will appear efficient and organised. You will be 
good at jobs which require close attention to detail.

Your home is probably a place of retreat, where you can enjoy privacy and 
retrospection. You are generous, but dominant in your relationship with your children.

Your health, should in general, be quite robust, as long as you do not overeat or 
become too self indulgent in any way.

You will hold your own particular philosophy on life, which you will keep dear in a very 
emotional kind of way. You will travel far in your mind, your eyes often on distant 
goals. It will be important to you that you be remembered fondly after you die. Thus, 
much of your later life may be geared into making sure that your affairs are kept in 
good order, so as to provide ample provisions for the loved ones you leave behind.
*
ASCENDANT IN CAPRICORN  
Disciplined, systematic, hardworking and patient, you like everything you do, to have 
a definite purpose designed to achieve some practical end. You tend to be somewhat 
serious and reserved. You gain pleasure from luxurious surroundings, good food, 
appreciate art, sculpture and music. Problems may arise as a result of setting goals 
which you are unable to fulfil due to circumstances.

You are surprisingly cryptic and highly emotional in the way you think and 
communicate. Often, your ideas are based on intuitive insights. You like to be alone 
when doing mental work and like to organise your plans and ideas secretly. You have 
an awareness of detail and a capacity for research.

Sensual and romantic in affairs of the heart, you will be strongly emotionally attached 
to your spouse. Problems may arise from the fact that quite possibly your spouse is 
emotionally, very dependant upon you!

You seldom choose weak individuals to be your friends, preferring to surround 
yourself with dynamic, aggressive people who can handle many of the difficult jobs 
which you would be too reserved to tackle.

You have the ability to make money in unusual ways, especially through groups or 
organisations. Even though you are generous, you like to have control of joint 
finances.

You will be versatile and ingenious in organising your work, and can handle several 
jobs at once. You have good management ability and can be very efficient. You have 
the ability to win over people who are in a position of power, thus gaining benefits 
and promotion. With regards to work, a strong sense of ethics and a good reputation, 
will be important to you.

You can sometimes be quite aggressive in matters relating to your home and family. 
However you are very consistent in your love and affection towards your children. 
You have a great deal of pride in your children's achievements, especially if they 
exceed your own. You want your children to have the good things in life.

Your philosophy on life will have its basis in efficiency and hard work. To respect any 
particular philosophy, it must be consistent in its every detail. When alone, and 
removed from the business world, you are very philosophically oriented. This is your 
hidden support through life, guiding and inspiring your thinking.
*
ASCENDANT IN AQUARIUS   
Original, creative and independent, you wish to make your own unique contribution to 
the world. Usually modest, you do not like to call undue attention to yourself, as you 
would rather be loved than admired. Despite appearing sometimes quite 
revolutionary, you are actually more conservative than you care to admit. Although 
sometimes limited by unconscious fears, your hidden strength is the discipline that 
enables you to work hard behind the scenes or under the surface. You can be trusted 
with secrets.

You may become aggressive and argumentative with regard to your pet theories and 
ideas and you can easily get onto a "hobby horse". You are intellectually creative, 
always looking at new avenues of expression and the means to apply these. You are 
very much a forward thinker.

Passion in love, is not one of your characteristics, as you derive your greatest 
pleasures from intellectual pursuits. You prefer intelligent companions with whom you 
can develop brother-sister relationships. However, you have the tendency to attract 
passionate, more dominant people as partners. Being a very independent person, 
you would never allow this domination to be carried to the point of suppression.

You are probably a bit lax and impractical when it comes to money matters, possibly 
due to excessive generosity. However, this generous spirit is very often the factor 
which brings you good luck financially. You love the good things of life, but this 
appreciation is unlikely to make you greedy.

Because you have a 'group' instinct, you are best working in an environment where 
there are people and constant activity. Joining groups or organisations in which 
everyone works toward a common goal for the good of others, will help you to grow in 
a personal sense. Very often, opportunity for self renewal will come through your job 
or profession.

Much of your financial resources will be channelled into your home, as you enjoy 
creating a personal environment that suits your individual tastes. If you have children, 
it is likely that they will have much intellectual ability.

Your health is very much dependant upon your emotional state. If nervous or upset, 
your stomach is likely to develop similar symptoms. You have an inner concern for 
matters of health and are always alert in situations of danger where accidents could 
occur.

Your philosophy of life is based on 'brotherly' love, freedom and equality. These are 
the truths by which you try to live your life, often finding the need to rebel against 
others in order to achieve them in reality.
*
ASCENDANT IN PISCES     
Sympathetic, adaptable, ethereal and visionary, your achievements are often the 
result of your sensitivity to the subtle undercurrents of your surroundings. You have 
an insight that allows you to penetrate the subtleties of human nature. You are likely 
to have some form of artistic or musical ability. You feel deeply for others especially 
when they are in a worse situation than you. You wish to be considered a 
philanthropist, and are in the main, very generous. Problems can arise through a 
tendency to burden your associates with problems and alienating friends by requiring 
constant sympathy and support.

You are slow and deliberate in the formation of ideas, and once a decision is made, 
stubborn about changing your mind. Your thinking tends to concentrate on 
moneymaking ideas or artistic endeavours.

In your love life, you will be highly emotional and sentimental, tending to place loved 
ones upon a pedestal. You attract hard working, efficient partners who are able to 
help you manage your practical affairs. Since your hopes and wishes are dominated 
by an inner desire for security, you will tend to choose stable, conservative people as 
friends and close associates.

You tend to make money by starting new projects, and you are constantly searching 
for new avenues of financial endeavour. Considerable energy will be spent in the 
monetary area of your life, as you tend to spend money impulsively, sometimes in 
excess.

Although usually meek by nature, with regard to work and service you tend to have 
feelings of authority, and can at times become quite domineering with co-workers and 
subordinates. There is a tendency to glory in the sacrifices you are called upon to 
make. You enjoy the experience of working with others, but although you have a 
great deal of vision, you are not always practical.

You are likely to change your residence many times, in fact on some occasions you 
may even have two homes at once! You will derive a great deal of pleasure from your 
family life and children. A great deal of thought will be given to domestic affairs and 
you tend to communicate extensively with other family members.

You have a tendency to be low in vitality, because subtle influences tend to dissipate 
your energies. When feeling depressed, you will experience psychosomatic 
symptoms of illness. Your state of mind strongly influences your health.

You have an unconscious desire to serve humanity and a universal awareness of the 
human condition. Spiritual growth will be achieved through service.
*


