MIDHEAVEN IN ARIES      
Outwardly, you project ambition, confidence and optimism, and you are probably very 
well aware of your objectives in life. Because of your  desires to be at the forefront of 
things, or the instigator of activity, you should beware of any impulses to be 
headstrong and impulsive.

You are temperamentally suited to any kind of pioneering work, or where you can 
lead others.
*
MIDHEAVEN IN TAURUS     
You  are persistent in the pursuit of your aims, showing endurance and a slow but 
sure striving for security.

You are not always very easy to please, and have a tendency to mistrust others.

You are temperamentally suited to any type of work which requires a fixity of purpose 
and determination, as long as this work will have  a tangible outcome.
*
MIDHEAVEN IN GEMINI     
Throughout your life, your ambitions and aims will probably change many times. 
However, you vigorously strive for what you want, but if you are not careful you could 
tend to scatter your energies, or treat matters too superficially. You are also 
periodically very creative.

You are very adaptable, and flexible when it comes to your career, as you like 
variety, and will try your hand at most things. However, you are very temperamentally 
suited to careers where you can use your abilities to communicate.
*
MIDHEAVEN IN CANCER     
Despite the fact that you strive for independence, you show great consideration for 
others in this.

You have a capacity to work with the public in some way, as you can sense their 
mood and act accordingly. If you are a woman, you may find that your work in some 
way centres around your home. Perhaps you  work from home, or are self-employed 
with your home  as your office. Or perhaps as  a childminder.
*
MIDHEAVEN IN LEO        
You have high aspirations and the urge to climb socially. To this end, you will project 
yourself as a self-confident, generous and optimistic person. However, you should 
beware of behaving egotistically or pretentiously, or being  hypersensitive to the 
humour of others.

You are best suited to a career where you can fully exploit your love of drama (the 
drama of life, not just the stage). Where you can lead or be the centre of attention.
*
MIDHEAVEN IN VIRGO      
You tend to seek advancement in life through simple means, and strive for a secure 
livelihood which can make your position in life more permanent.

Although you have good organisational skills, you may cause yourself problems by 
having an overly critical attitude. You are also susceptible to flattery or unwarranted 
praise.

You are temperamentally suited to work which requires  attention to detail, or that 
which requires analytical ability.
*
MIDHEAVEN IN LIBRA      
You project yourself as a basically harmonious person, who will seek advancement 
through cooperation with others. You have strong material interests, and success in 
your life will be  brought about through being adaptable and social. However, you 
should beware of exploiting others with your charm, or through being pleasant whilst 
at the same time insincere. Other people may pick up on this and see you as selfish 
or  shallow.

You are temperamentally suited to any kind of work where you can use strategies to 
achieve  goals. You  would also make a good mediator or go between, such as a 
lawyer, or claimants advisor.
*
MIDHEAVEN IN SCORPIO    
You  show depth of feeling and strong determination when it comes to your career 
aims. You are a hard worker, industrious and persevering. You should beware of 
overtaxing your energies, being ruthless or overestimating yourself. You might be 
best at work which involves secrets, or research into things hidden.
*
MIDHEAVEN IN SAGITTARIUS
Although very flexible, you have the ability to be very direct in  your business 
dealings. You aim for what you want and go for it, whilst at the same time attempting 
to enlarge your sphere of influence and material standing.

You are  somewhat adventurous, and may enjoy work in the area of sport, or with 
horses, or in the  country.
*
MIDHEAVEN IN CAPRICORN  
In your work, you will show much practicality, and organisational ability, thus you  are 
suited to working in business management, or of running your own business, 
especially if that business has anything to do with structures, such as building or civil 
engineering.

You  work and progress slowly but surely, concentrating upon yourself and your  
work, with a simplicity, modesty and sense of reality. You are likely  to be very 
ambitious and active.
*
MIDHEAVEN IN AQUARIUS   
You project yourself as an progressive independent person, with an avid interest in 
innovations and novelties. Periodically you are very creative, and surprise others 
occasionally by suddenly asserting yourself out of the blue. You are able to grasp 
opportunities, and cooperate with others as long as they are under your leadership.

Work in the modern technological sphere would suit you, such as working with 
computers, telecommunications, aircraft  etc.
*
MIDHEAVEN IN PISCES     
You have  something of a wait and see attitude, and seek a simple and easy life. You 
take pleasure from the simple things in life, and need periodic bouts of seclusion, in 
order to clarify your thoughts, which are often confused and vague.

You bring an intuitive and emotional quality to your working life, and want to dedicate 
yourself to the service of others, because you feel their sufferings and pain. Thus you 
might make a good nurse, or doctor, home help, or voluntary worker. You like to feel 
that you are doing something useful and worthwhile, and financial considerations are  
secondary.
*
