SUN IN HOUSE  1
You show a strong determination to choose your own course in life. You probably 
have a clear view of want and the ambition and energy to achieve it. You are 
extremely individualistic, and will work long and hard to achieve personal distinction 
and esteem in the eyes of others. An intense self awareness is shown, together with 
abundant vitality and a strong will.
*
SUN IN HOUSE  2
You probably have a strong desire to attain financial independence and your life's 
pattern will force you to learn how to use money and property in ways beneficial to 
life, constructively, not merely for personal satisfaction. Money is likely to be earned 
through energetic, physical means, and spent in a similar manner.

However, there may be the tendency to squander money or resources on expensive 
luxuries, merely for the purpose of ego gratification or display, as you tend to believe 
that you can achieve prestige in the eyes of others, merely through wealth.
*
SUN IN HOUSE  3
You show a strong drive to achieve distinction through the intellect or mental 
accomplishment. You have an inbuilt curiosity which makes you eager to investigate 
new things, so that you can gain a more thorough understanding of life's inner 
workings and processes. The ability to express and communicate your ideas is very 
important to you. A desire to travel is shown.

Problems may arise through a tendency  of believing yourself to know better than 
others, thus forcing them to only accept your ideas.

Brothers, sisters and neighbours, probably play an important part in your life.
*
SUN IN HOUSE  4
The first part of your life, will probably be an uphill struggle, but you can look forward 
to increasing prosperity and security as you become older.

You have a strong interest in establishing a secure home and family. Proud of your 
family heritage, it is probably important to you that you own the family home, giving 
you long term security and responsibility.

Problems may arise, or have arisen, with an inability to get along with your parents, 
through having an excess of family pride, or through a desire to dominate the 
domestic scene.
*
SUN IN HOUSE  5
You have a love of life and a powerful will towards creative self-expression. You seek 
pleasure and love to be noticed and appreciated. You project yourself in a dramatic 
way and will attract many friends. However, your self confidence sometimes blinds 
you into taking risks.

An ardent lover, a love affair can be all-consuming. However, you are capable of 
extreme loyalty to your chosen partner.

You have a great love of children and are probably actively interested in their 
development and education. In fact, children will play an important role in your life in 
some way or another.
*
SUN IN HOUSE  6
You seek distinction in your life through work and service. Your self-esteem and 
dignity is very closely linked to the work and service you do. However, you seek 
outward gestures of appreciation from your employer and if this is not forthcoming, 
you are likely to become disillusioned with your work, and are likely to change jobs. 
You may be interested in a career related to health in some way, and there should be 
few difficulties in obtaining suitable employment, although you could find yourself 
going through long periods of unemployment.

There is some possibility of delicate health, with lengthy recuperation required after 
illness. However, you intuitively know how to care for your health, and there should 
be few problems provided that proper care is exercised over dietary habits.
*
SUN IN HOUSE  7
You tend to express your potential through close, personal relationships, attracting 
strong, capable and loyal friends. Marriage will be of paramount importance in your 
life, your partner being strong and loyal, with enduring affection. You can expect 
increasing success in your life after marriage.

However, there may be some danger of domination within your marriage or other 
partnerships, either from yourself toward your partner, or vice-versa. If this be the 
case, then situations within marriage or partnerships, will attempt to teach the value 
of co-operation and respect for the individual self-expression of others.

Your self-confident manner helps promote your popularity at work. You will be 
especially adept in dealing with superiors and in public relations.
*
SUN IN HOUSE  8
There may be a possibility of a legacy at some time in your life, or gain through the 
utilisation of the property of others. On the other hand, though, there is a possibility of 
trouble or litigation, at some time in your life, with regard to jointly owned property, a 
legacy or joint finances.

An interest in the deeper mysteries in life is shown, such as death and the survival of 
the consciousness after death. If this interest is not present in your life at the 
moment, you will probably find it will become so, later in life. You feel a need to 
experience directly, a deep level of spiritual reality which transcends outer material 
circumstances.

If this experience has already been realised, then you will remain fearless throughout 
your life, confident, that if you adhere to the principles of justice, then nothing can 
harm your fundamental being. Life will not always be easy, but you have much to 
gain.
*
SUN IN HOUSE  9
Your chart indicates an interest in spiritual and religious matters, higher education, 
law and philosophy. Interested in the larger social order, together with the laws and 
traditions governing it, you will have developed strong moral convictions by which you 
guide your life. At times, you have visions of the future that border on prophecy and 
frequent flashes of inspiration, that help you to solve problems.

On the other hand, you may be the type of person whose religious beliefs are 
classed by others, as somewhat eccentric.
*
SUN IN HOUSE  10
Generally, you are a person who is ambitious for responsibility, power and authority, 
within whatever sphere of life you operate. You have a talent for politics, which you 
will use, whether you be at home or at work. As you have a strong desire to achieve 
honour and recognition, and the will to succeed, you will work hard to attain the 
necessary knowledge and skills. You have good managerial abilities.A strong sense 
of morals is shown and you often feel required to set a good example to others.

There may be occasions however, when your desire to achieve power and 
recognition overshadows your moral standards resulting in you taking a dictatorial 
attitude with others, or use of unscrupulous means in order to achieve your aims. If 
this is true in your case, then care should be exercised if reversals of fortune are to 
be avoided.
*
SUN IN HOUSE  11
There is a strong drive to gain recognition through mental achievements and 
inventions, together with an interest in occult subjects and scientific endeavours.

Much interest in friendships and group activities is shown. The friends you make, will 
hold you high in their esteem and will generally assist you in your life's endeavours. 
This is because you have strong humanitarian feelings, a respect for human dignity, 
and lack bias or favouritism. You tend to see things in terms of universal laws that 
apply impartially to all.

In some instances however, you may find yourself being let down, used, or led astray 
by your friends. If this be the case, then it may help to examine your own motives in 
the particular situation. You may find that you have ulterior motives, (not necessarily 
conscious), or a selfish attitude, which has backfired.
*
SUN IN HOUSE  12
As an individual, you are somewhat retiring and shy, tending to direct your energies 
towards exploring the resources of your own unconscious. Any leadership potential 
you have, will normally be displayed behind the scenes. You may also display 
mediumistic tendencies.

However, you may have strong unconscious desires for power and recognition, which 
may lead you into situations where you attempt to control others through secret 
means, which can result in you becoming your own worst enemy.

You may find that you achieve your best means of self expression through working in 
large institutions, such as hospitals, prisons, asylums, or other places of spiritual or 
physical retreat, as you recognise that fulfilment largely comes through dedicated 
service to others.
*
