Bangkok - An unusual dice game

Ralph Nolte
Frankfurt, Germany
CompuServe 100143,3576
(Feel free to email comments)

1. What is it?

Bangkok is a dice game played a lot in the pubs in Germany and
known under a wide variety of different names. With this Psion
3a program the user can play against the computer, making it
more interesting and providing a sort of solitaire.

2. What's unusual about Bangkok?

One thing that is unusual about the game is that a LOSER is
chosen, not a winner. The loser then generally buys a round of
beer.

3. What is in the BANGKOK.ZIP file?

BANGKOK.ZIP contains:

-    BANGKOK.TXT         This text file
-    BANGKOK.OPA         The application program
-    BANGKOK.OPL         The application program source code (sorry for
			 the sometimes inadequate program structure)
-    BANGKOK.PIC         The pointing finger graphic
-    DICE.WVE, DIE.WVE,  Sound files used when rolling dice
     WOODY.WVE           Sound file used at end of game

4. How do I install BANGKOK?

Simply copy

	  The file(s)         to
	  -----------         --
	  BANGKOK.OPA         Any \APP\ subdirectory
	  BANGKOK.PIC         \OPD\ subdirectory on standard disk 
			      (normally m:)
	  DICE.WVE,DIE.WVE,   Any \WVE\ subdirectory
	  WOODY.WVE
Then install BANGKOK.OPA via Psion/I (or the menu command
"Application/Install") as desired in the system screen.

5. How do I play Bangkok?

Simple. Six dice are used. The object of each player round is to
reach or exceed thirty (30) points with the six dice.

So you roll the six dice and can pick out as many as you like
(but at least one, the highest, of course) and place them on the
side in the scoring area. Then you roll again and repeat.

This goes on until all 6 dice are "on the side." Now you add uo
the total, and:

-    If you have less than 30 points, you receive the difference
     added to your name; for example, if the total is 28, you
     receive 2 points. If the total is 22, you receive 8 points
     (remember, points are BAD..we're finding a LOSER, not a
     winner!).

-    If you have exactly 30 points, nothing happens.

-    If you exceed 30 points, you get to play a "Bonus" round in
     which the resulting score is ADDED to ALL your opponents
     (described below).

The Bonus: Assume you have reached a total of 33. You 'remember'
the value 3 by which you exceeded 30 (it's shown as an extra die
on the S3a screen to the left of the scoring area) and roll
again. Any dice which show a 3 are again moved to the side and
you roll again. This is repeated until you either run out of
dice or until you roll and no dice contain a 3. The total of the
dice on the side, including the extra die, are then added to the
scores of ALL your opponents. REMEMBER: The object is to keep
your score LOW. This is done, however, by reaching or exceeding
30 in each round.

The first player to reach the end score (usually 51), LOSES and
has to pay for a round of beer. 31 is a good end score for a
short game.

6. How do I play Bangkok on the Psion S3a?

Start the program.

In the first dialog box, define the number of players (up to 5),
whether or not the S3a is to play too (if the S3a plays, it is
always last and has the name "S3a"), whether or not you want to
use sound, and what End Score is to define the end of the game.

If you use sound but turn the Psion sound off in the system
menu, the game will play rather hectically because the .WAV
files are not played, leaving out pauses. You can delete or
rename the .WVE files to save space if (when) you get tired of
hearing the sound.

In the second dialog box you enter the names of the players and
press Enter.

The screen is then set up and the dice are rolled for the first
player. On the right you see the scoring area, where the dice
are moved to. The current acccumulated score is shown in the
black box at the bottom of the scoring area. The name of the
player currently playing is show in bold italics, while the
other players' names are shown in normal print.

Now you use the left-arrow, right-arrow, space (to re-roll the
dice) and Enter (to move a die to the scoring area) keys to
play. You must pick at least one die after rolling; if no 6s are
shown, pick the highest and roll again. If 6s are shown, take
them all (one after another via arrow keys and Enter) and then
re-roll. When only one or two dice remain, you will have to risk
other choices.

When you move the last die to the scoring area, the program
examines the score and either:

-    Adds the difference to 30 to your score, if you are below
     or equal to thirty, or
-    Plays the bonus for you with the value you exceeded 30 by.
     At the end of the bonus round, your bonus value will be
     added to the scores of all other players.

The bonus is played automatically by the program, as well as is
the entire playing operation when it is the S3a's turn.

When the S3a loses, he doesn't pay for the beer, so someone else
will have to cover for him.

Have Fun. The program is Freeware and intended to be enjoyed by
all.

PS
Just realised there is a bug in the program when Esc is pressed
to abort during playing..it asks about twenty times. Will try to
fix as soon as possible.
