                              DATAUTIL 2.x
                                    
                                    
                                    
                              A UTILITY FOR
                                    
                                    
                         VIEWING DATABASE FILES
                                    
                                    
                             ON THE PSION 3A
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                                                   DATAUTIL 2.x
                                    
                                    
                              INTRODUCTION

DATAUTIL is a utility for the PSION 3A for viewing, searching and sorting Database files.  The
utility makes use of the increased screen resolution of the 3A, and will therefore not run on the
PSION 3.

The utility allows the records to be displayed in one of two modes:-

In the 'LIST' mode multiple records are shown with the fields  being displayed horizontally on the
screen.  The 'screen' can be scrolled horizontally in order to view fields which are off the screen.

In the 'INDIVIDUAL RECORD' mode, the records are shown in a similar manner to the normal
PSION application, but with the facility to scroll the 'screen' both horizontally and vertically to
show fields which are off the screen.

Facilities are also included to allow searching and sorting.  In the search mode, all records meeting
the search string can be shown in a 'list' mode, with the facility to scroll up and down the list, and
to view fields off the 'screen'.


INSTALLATION:

The file DATAUTIL.OPA should be copied into the \APP subdirectory either on the machine or
external ram.  The program is then installed by pressing the keys PSION and I together, selecting
the file DATAUTIL and pressing ENTER.  A new Icon for DATAUTIL should then appear on
the system screen, together with a list of 'DBF' files in the \DAT sub-directories on all drives.

The utility itself will create files with a '.DUT' extension in the main internal \DAT sub-directory 
for each database in which current program settings are saved.  The '.DUT' being prefixed with
the name of the database being used.  These settings are saved to the internal ram, even if the
database itself resides on an external 'disk', this avoids problems with writing to flash rams.


USING THE PROGRAM

1.   Select the database required from those listed under the DATAUTIL icon. 

2.   On pressing the ENTER key, the database will be loaded.  If it is the first time that this
     particular database has been used by the program, various parameters will be read and
     calculated, on a large database this may take some time.  If you wish, you can press ESC
     at any time, the utility will then calculate program settings from the data read up to that
     point.  

     On exiting the database you will be given the option of saving these parameters and other
     settings so that they can be used again the next time the database is used. (Thus making
     loading the second time a lot quicker).

3.   Once loaded the Database will be shown in the 'list mode', where all records are displayed
     in record order as a list, and  with the record fields being shown horizontally.

4.   The utility can be  'Toggled' between 'LIST' and 'INDIVIDUAL RECORD' mode by
     pressing PSION-D.
     Note: In order to get out of the 'individual record' mode,  it may be necessary to press
     'ESC' before pressing PSION-D.   

GENERAL

1.   The font used can be changed to any of the normal PSION types/sizes by pressing
     PSION-SHIFT-F together.  The setting currently used will then be shown.  This can then
     be changed by pressing 'TAB' to bring up a list and selecting the required font, or
     alternatively using the horizontal cursor keys to scroll through the options.

     The font can also be changed by pressing either PSION-Z or PSION-SHIFT-Z, this will
     change to the next or previous font available, and is equivalent to the PSION 'zoom'
     feature.  

     Changing the font will affect the number of lines and columns displayed on the screen.

2.   The effective width of the display is the sum of the maximum lengths of all fields in a
     record, which means that a lot of information could be off screen.  In order to see this off
     screen information, the 'viewing screen' can be scrolled to the left and right by use of the
     horizontal cursor keys.  To quickly reach the left or right field extremities, press 'SHIFT'
     and the appropriate horizontal cursor key.  (Note., positioning  to the 'hard right' is only
     approximate.


3.   To change the amount by which the screen scrolls, press PSION-M.  Enter a figure
     indicating the approximate percentage of screen width for scroll required. (The dialog
     indicates the current setting).

4.   Pressing either TAB or SHIFT-TAB will scroll the screen to bring the next or previous
     field to the edge of the display.

5.   Sometimes it is useful to blank out, or partially clip some fields in order to maximise the
     amount of information shown on the screen.  Pressing PSION-W will bring up a screen
     showing the current field width settings, and the maximum and average values of all the
     field widths in the database.  In order to calculate these figures, the utility has to read
     every field of every record, on a large database this may take some time.  Pressing 'ESC'
     will abort this process, and values will be calculated on the records read up to that point.

     To change the field width settings:-

     a.   To set all field widths to their max values, press 'M'

     b.   To set all field widths to their average values, press 'A'

     c.   To manually set any field width:-
          
          Press the first digit of the field number to be changed.
          
          This will bring up a dialog, complete the field number and press enter.
          
          Enter  the value of field width required.  Entering '0' will cause this field to be
          blanked.

          Repeat for all fields which need changing.

     d.   If there are more fields in the database than can be shown on one screen, the
          vertical cursor keys can be used to scroll and view the additional fields.  An
          asterisk next to the top or bottom field number indicates that there are more fields
          to be viewed.

     e.   To use these new settings and return to the database, press 'S'.

     f.   To abort the setting process, lose all changes and return to the database press
          'ESC'.    

6.   Pressing 'END'  (PSION-Rt Cursor) will display the last record in the database.

7.   Pressing 'HOME' (PSION-Lt Cursor) will display the first record in the database.

8.   Pressing PSION-J will allow you to jump a specific record number in the database.
     (Record numbers can be displayed on the left hand of the screen in list mode, and at the
     bottom of the screen in individual mode).

9.   Pressing PSION-S will save all the current field width and display mode settings to a
     specific file for the database being used.  This file will be loaded automatically next time
     the database is loaded.

10.  Pressing the MENU key will bring up a menu in the normal PSION fashion.

11.  Pressing the HELP key will give various help screens showing the keys used in the
     database.

12.  Pressing PSION-O will cause the current database to be closed, and another one opened. 
     You will be given the option to save the current settings before closing the file.

13.  Pressing PSION-X will cause the current database to be closed, and the program exited. 
     You will be given the option to save the current settings before saving the file.

       
LIST MODE

1.   A list of records will be shown.  Each record occupying one line, and having its fields
     displayed horizontally.  

2.   The next or previous screenful of records can be shown by using the vertical cursor keys. 
     To quickly jump to the beginning or end of the database, use the HOME (PSION-Left)
     or END (PSION-Right) keys.

3.   Fields, or parts of fields which extend past the current viewing screen can be seen by using
     the horizontal cursor keys.  To quickly jump to the beginning or the end of the horizontal
     line, press SHIFT-Left or SHIFT-Right.  To jump to the next or previous field press TAB
     or SHIFT-TAB.

4.   Pressing any alpha-numeric key wilil cause an automatic jump to the first record with its
     first character (by sort field) matching that key.

5.   Pressing PSION-T will toggle the display of the field labels (or titles) at the top of the
     screen.

6.   Pressing PSION-R will cycle between three display modes of the left hand column of the
     display.  This left hand column is 'locked' during horizontal screen scrolling, and is thus
     visible at all times.

     Mode 1:   No additional information is shown, only the current record line. (This
               shows the maximum information on one line).

     Mode 2:   The current Record Number Prefixes the current record line.

     Mode 3:   The field by which the database is sorted (or the first field of an unsorted
               database) of the current record prefixes the current record line.  This field
               width may be truncated, and its width can be set by pressing PSION-C.


INDIVIDUAL RECORD MODE

1.   Each record occupies one screen.  Each field in the record occupies a new line.

2.   The field information may extend off the screen, to see this additional information use the
     horizontal cursor keys.  SHIFT-LEFT and SHIFT-RIGHT will move the display screen
     to the beginning or end of the field.

3.   If there are more fields than can be fitted vertically on the screen, the message "more
     fields" will be shown at the bottom left corner of the screen.  The vertical cursor keys will
     scroll the display up and down.

4.   The current record number is shown at the bottom right of the screen.

5.   Pressing the ENTER key will advance the display to the next record.

6.   Pressing the DELETE key will show the previous record.

7.   If the 'display title' setting is currently on, the field labels will be shown in the left hand
     column of the display.

8.   In order to change display modes, fonts, and other settings you have to be back at the
     'MAIN MENU', pressing the 'ESC' key will take you back to the main menu.

     Whilst in the view record mode, the message 'VIEW RECORD' will be shown on the
     bottom line of the display, this will change to 'MAIN MENU' when the main menu is
     active. 

9.   To change system settings, such as fonts, titles, scroll widths etc, and also to toggle
     display modes, if the message 'MAIN MENU' is not shown on the bottom line of the
     display, pressing the 'ESC' key will take you  back to the main menu,  '***  MAIN MENU
     ***   will then be shown at the bottom of the screen.



SORTING THE DATABASE

Pressing PSION, SHIFT and S, will sort the database into alphabetical order.  The sort can be
selected on any one of the first seven fields.   NOTE:  This sort modifies the positioning of the
records in the database being read, and actually writes to that file.  Ensure any valuable data is
backed up before performing a sort.  

Sorting is not recommended for files on a FLASH device, and large files may take some time to
complete.   


SEARCHING THE DATABASE

The utility has two modes of searching the database:-

     a.   A List mode where all records matching the search criteria are as a list of records. 
          This list can be scrolled using the cursor keys, in a similar manner to the main
          database.  Whilst in the 'list search'  mode, 'SEARCH FOR: + the search string'
          will be shown on the top line of the display.  

          1.   To select the 'LIST' Search mode, press PSION-L.

               A dialog will then appear.  From this dialog options are available to enable
               up to two search strings, either of which can apply to a single field or all
               fields.  From the Search Menu dialog, press the ENTER key to select the
               option required.         

          2.   To exit the search mode, press the 'ESC' key.

          3.   The keys used to scroll the display etc, are the same as those used in the
               main DATABASE LIST mode.

     b.   An 'individual record' mode where each record matching the search criteria is
          shown one per screen, in a similar manner to the 'individual record' mode of the
          main database.

          1.   To select the 'INDIVIDUAL RECORD' Search mode, press PSION-F
     
          2.   The display shown is similar to that used in the main database
               INDIVIDUAL RECORD mode.

          3.   To view the next occurrence of the search string you have to first exit the
               VIEW RECORD display by pressing 'ESC', the message 'SEARCH
               MODE' will then be shown on the bottom line of the display.

               Pressing ENTER or PSION-N will then show the next occurrence of the
               search string, and DELETE or PSION-P will show the previous
               occurrence.

          4.   Whilst in the VIEW RECORD mode the keys used are the same as those
               used in the INDIVIDUAL RECORD mode of the main database.

          5.   To exit the search mode, press the 'ESC' key until 'MAIN MENU' is
               shown at the bottom of the screen. 


JUMPING TO A SPECIFIC RECORD

Pressing PSION-J, will position the display at a specified record number.  


HELP and MENU KEYS

In most instances, pressing the 'HELP' key will give a list of key presses, and pressing the 'MENU'
key will allow operation of the program from a menu.

EXITING THE PROGRAM:

The program is exited by pressing PSION and X.  On exiting you will be given the option of
saving the settings.  These settings include the current field widths and fonts, and are saved for
each database used.  Alternatively these settings can be saved at any time by pressing PSION -S.


LOADING A NEW DATABASE

A new database can be loaded by pressing PSION and O.


LIMITATIONS   

Up to 26 fields having a maximum length of 255 characters can be displayed.

Any fields having 'TABs' included as part of the text will be shown as the 'TABs' being replaced
by a single space.  The database file being read is not changed in any way, only the  way it is
displayed.


FILE CLOSE ERRORS and DATA COMPRESSION

Some database files which have recently been changed may give loading and saving problems,
these being shown by the utility giving an error message.  This is because in order to safeguard
data, and to prevent  writing to flash rams, the database is opened as read only.  Unfortunately
when the files are closed the PSION automatically attempts to compress the datafiles.   

If this happens, either, try COMPRESSING the file using the option in the file menu of the built
in PSION database program, and then reload the database using DATAUTIL, or use DATAUTIL
to sort the data.  Remember sorting is not recommended on a flash ram, and may take some time
on a large database.  Using the PSION option is probably easiest.

Alternatively, the error message may be ignored altogether, as long as no other error messages
are displayed, the program should behave normally.


DISCLAIMER
Whilst every care has been taken to ensure correct operation of this program, the author accepts
no liability for any loss of data, program malfunction, or any other problem, however caused.

 A.T. Abbey.  4 Broadacre Close, Bredon, Tewkesbury, Glos.  GL20 7NWCHANGES FROM VERSION 1.0

1.   If updating from a previous version,  please note that any *.DAT  files which may have
     been generated by the previous version of the utility,  in the \DAT subdirectory  of the
     internal disk can be deleted.  These files are not used with the latest version.

2.   Now caters for a total of 26 fields.

3.   Now has horizontal and vertical scrolling of the window, thus allowing all the database
     to be viewed.

4.   Has improved search facilities.

5.   Allows the screen width calculation to be terminated early.

6.   Has an improved set field width facility.

7.   Can show a 'locked' first field.

8.   Can use PSION-Z to 'zoom' display.

9.   Has several cosmetic improvements.

10.  Has had several bugs fixed, (and no doubt a few new ones added with the new facilities!).







                                 SHAREWARE

This program is issued as shareware, this means that you may try it for a short period to see if
it suits your purpose.  If you wish to continue using it you should then register it, otherwise 
you should remove the copy from your machine.  Please pass a copy onto other users for their
evaluation, making sure that you include this documentation.  In no instance may registered
copies be passed onto other users.

If you find this program useful and wish to register it, please send œ8.00 to the author

                    A.T. Abbey
                    4 Broadacre Close
                    Bredon
                    Tewkesbury
                    Glos
                    GL20 7NW

In return you will be sent a disk containing the latest program, and without the annoying 'NAG'
screens beeps and delays.  If you require the disk to be sent to a destination other than the UK
mainland, please enclose a suitable additional sum to cover postage costs.



