  




Contents


  .Begin Table C.
Introduction to Mail-merge Printer........................2
        þ  Definitions....................................2
Getting Started...........................................4
    Installing the applications...........................4
        þ  MergeEd........................................4
        þ  MergePr........................................5
Writing a standard letter.................................6
        þ  Note this well -  Merge input file.............6
        þ  Series 3 Word..................................6
    Which symbols can I use ?.............................7
        þ  ®initial¯......................................8
        þ  ®date¯.........................................8
    Standard letter is now complete - what next ?.........8
        þ  Get the document layout right..................8
Creating a merge data-file...............................10
    MergeEd and Series 3 data............................10
        þ  Things to watch out for.......................10
        þ  Group codes...................................10
        þ  Can I use my existing data files..............10
Performing a mail-merge print............................12
    Print set-up.........................................12
        þ  Serial........................................12
        þ  Parallel......................................12
        þ  File..........................................12
    Printing.............................................13
    Exiting..............................................13
    On-line help using MergePr...........................14
    About MergePr........................................14
    Status...............................................14
Appendix A - Copying to other devices....................15
Appendix B - Pictorial representation of the application.16
Appendix C - The relationship between symbols and fields.17
Appendix D - Trouble-shooting............................18
  .End Table C.
  Mail Merge Printer                                                            Pa
  





       

       .c.Introduction to Mail-merge Printer


         The following  instructions assume a basic working knowledge
         of the  Psion Series 3 computer. Many of the features of the
         application (E.g. the menus, dialog boxes, control keys) are
         very similar to those found on the Series 3. In fact, two of
         the main  steps used  in creating  a mail-merge  letter  use
         Series 3  built-in applications  in one  form or other. This
         has been  done for  two main  reasons. Firstly,  to keep the
         cost of  the application  down. This is due to the fact that
         many of  the features  needed by  any mail-merge application
         exist already  on the  Series  3  so  duplication  of  these
         features would  be needlessly  time consuming and expensive.
         Secondly, many  users will  already be  experienced in using
         the Word and Data applications on the Series 3 so there will
         be little  learning to  do  to  get  well  on  your  way  to
         producing a mail-merge letter.
         
         You have  probably found  yourself in the position of having
         to send  a copy  of a  letter to  many different  people and
         that, apart  from the  personal details  such as address and
         name, the text of the letter is the same. It would be fairly
         simple to  have to  type a  letter into the Word application
         with one  persons details,  print it, change the details and
         then print  it again. Imagine, however, having to do this 20
         times. This is where 'Mail-merge Printer' can make your life
         easier.
         
         There are  three main  steps to  producing a  complete mail-
         merge using this application:
            
            þ Write  a standard  letter which  contains the main text
              but no  specific personal  details. This  is done using
              the Series 3 Word application.
            
            þ Create  a   merge  data-file  which  contains  personal
              details. This  is done  using the  MergeEd application.
              (MergeEd is a contraction of Merge-file Editor).
            
            þ Use  the  'MergePr'  application  to  combine  the  two
              together  into   a  number   of  similar  letters  with
              different personal  details. (MergePr  is a contraction
              of Mail-merge Printer).

         .c.::þ  Definitions

            þ An application  is a program or group of programs which
              perform a specific task. Examples of an application are
              this Mail-merge  application or  those built  into  the
              Series 3 such as Agenda or Calc.

  Mail Merge Printer
  



            
            þ A program  is a  word used generally to described a set
              of procedures  which can  be run.  In the  main, people
              will   use    the   terms   application   and   program
              interchangeably.
            
            þ A procedure  is a  single programming  unit. A  program
              will generally  be built  up of  a number of individual
              procedures.   With this product, you will be unaware of
              individual procedures.
            
            þ A standard  letter is  a file  which contains  the main
              text of your letter but which has, in place of specific
              personal details,  symbols  to  be  replaced  when  the
              letter is actually printed.
            
            þ A symbol  is fairly  self explanatory.  It is  a  label
              which temporarily  takes the place of a personal detail
              but which will not actually appear in the final printed
              version of  the letter.  In a  standard letter, symbols
              are differentiated  from normal words by being enclosed
              in the chevron characters: "®" and "¯". (E.g. ®town¯)
            
            þ A merge  data-file is  a file  which contains  personal
              details such as name, address, postcode, etc. This file
              will be  used as the source of the replacements for the
              symbols in the standard letter.
            
            þ A mail-merge  is a  generic term  used to  describe the
              whole process  of writing  a letter,  creating a  merge
              data-file and  actually printing  all of  the resultant
              letters.

  Mail Merge Printer                                                            
  



       

       .c.Getting Started


         The Mail-merge Printer is supplied on an SSD which fits into
         either of the two SSD slots on your Series 3. The Mail-merge
         Printer SSD  need only  be in  place when  you are  actually
         using it.  If you  are not  using the  application  you  can
         remove the  SSD. It  is important  to note  that if  you are
         actually running  the  'Mail-merge  Printer'  you  must  not
         remove the  SSD on  which it  is stored. You can tell if you
         are actually  running the  'Mail-merge Printer' as, if it is
         in the  foreground, you  will see  it on  the screen. If the
         program is  in the  background, its  name will appear on the
         Series 3  System Screen  in bold  letters. You  can stop the
         application running in one of two ways:
            
            þ Highlight the  name of the application you wish to stop
              (at the  System Screen) and press <Delete>. The program
              should then  stop and  its name  will revert  to single
              strike letters  (not  bold).  If  for  any  reason  the
              application cannot stop (it might be waiting for you to
              press a key in response to a question), you must follow
              the second step detailed here.
            
            þ Enter the  program by  highlighting  its  name  in  the
              System Screen  and pressing  <Enter>. Then  follow  the
              prompts until  you are  back at  the opening screen and
              either select  'Exit' from  the appropriate  menu using
              the menu  button or  press  the  <Psion>  key  and  <X>
              together.
         
         The SSD can now be removed with no problems.
         
         For the  purposes of  these instructions, it is assumed that
         the Mail-merge Printer will be used from the SSD on which it
         was  originally   supplied.  If   you  wish   to  copy  this
         application onto  another disk (or even the internal disk of
         the Series 3 itself) read the instructions in Appendix A.
         


       

       .c.:Installing the applications


         As mentioned  briefly above, the Mail-merge Printer actually
         consists of two programs:

         .c.::þ  MergeEd

         This is the application which you use to create and edit the
         data-files containing  personal details to be replaced. This

  Mail Merge Printer                                                            
  



         program is  installed in  the following manner (assuming the
         SSD is in the 'A' slot - if yours is in 'B', simply read 'B'
         for 'A'):
            
            þ Move to the System Screen and position the highlight at
              the place you wish the icon to be installed (unless you
              specify 'First'  or 'Last',  the icon will be installed
              to the left of the application currently highlighted).
            
            þ Press the  <Psion> key  and the letter <I>. You will be
              presented with an 'Install application' dialog. Move to
              the 'Disk'  line of  this dialog  and change  it to 'A'
              (using the  arrow keys).  The name  'Mergeed.als'  will
              appear in the 'File: Name' line.  Press <Enter>.
            
            þ An new  icon will  appear on  the System   Screen  like
              this:

                          .G.MERGEED.PCX;0.5";0.5";PCX


         .c.::þ  MergePr

         This is the application which you use to bring the two files
         together into  the final  letters. This program is installed
         in the  following manner  (again assuming  the SSD is in the
         'A' slot - if yours is in 'B', simply read 'B' for 'A'):
            
            þ Move to the System Screen and position the highlight at
              the place you wish the icon to be installed (unless you
              specify 'First'  or 'Last',  the icon will be installed
              to the left of the application currently highlighted).
            
            þ Press the  <Psion> key  and the letter <I>. You will be
              presented with an 'Install application' dialog. Move to
              the 'Disk'  line of  this dialog  and change  it to 'A'
              (using the  arrow keys).  The name  'Mergepr.opa'  will
              appear in the 'File: Name' line.  Press <Enter>.
            
            þ An new  icon will  appear on  the System   Screen  like
              this:

                         .G.MERGEPR.PCX;0.5";0.5";PCX

         Once you have successfully installed the two applications as
         described above, you are ready to prepare a mail-merge.

  Mail Merge Printer                                                            
  



       

       .c.Writing a standard letter



         .c.::þ  Note this well -  Merge input file

         Before you embark on the composition of your epistle, ensure
         that you do the following:
            
            þ At the  System Screen,  press the  <Psion> key  and the
              letter <P>. This will produce a "Printer configuration"
              dialog.
            
            þ Regardless of  the type  of printer  you have connected
              (or intend  to use),  set the 'Printer device' field to
              'File'.
            
            þ Enter the  name of  any file  you like  into the 'File:
              Name' field.  You are  recommended to give the file the
              extension '.lis'  and a  name which  you will  remember
              (such as 'merge.lis').
            
            þ Set the 'Units' field according to your preference.
            
            þ Press <Enter> to save these settings.

         .c.::þ  Series 3 Word

         If you  are not familiar with the Series 3 Word application,
         you would  be well  advised to  refer to  the Series  3 User
         Guide and to familiarise yourself with the application. This
         is due  to the fact that, as mentioned earlier, the standard
         letter is  entered using  this built-in application. You can
         get going quickly by positioning the highlight in the System
         Screen under the Word icon, pressing <Psion><N>, selecting a
         name for  your new  file  and  pressing  <Enter>.  The  Word
         application will then be run.
         
         For the purposes of explanation, the following (very simple)
         example may  help.  Suppose  you  would  like  to  send  the
         following three letters:
            
            ---------------------------------------------------
            Ms. M. Mouse,
            Disneyland.
            
            Dear Minnie,
            
            How is  life in  America these  days ?  Is your  postcode
            still DL01 7MM ? I must go now.
            
            All the best,
            Pluto

  Mail Merge Printer                                                            
  



            ---------------------------------------------------
            Mr. G. Bush,
            Washington.
            
            Dear George,
            
            How is  life in  America these  days ?  Is your  postcode
            still WH15 2CH ? I must go now.
            
            All the best,
            Pluto
            ---------------------------------------------------
            Mr. J. Major,
            London.
            
            Dear John,
            
            How is  life in  Britain these  days ?  Is your  postcode
            still SW1 1XX ? I must go now.
            
            All the best,
            Pluto
            ---------------------------------------------------
            
         You will  probably have  noticed that,  apart from the name,
         country, etc. these letters are exactly the same. About this
         time you  will probably  be wondering  "When does  this  get
         easier ?".  The answer  is now.  A mail-merge  program would
         help us print these letters much more easily and efficiently
         as we  would only  have  to  type  the  basic  letter  once.
         Consider the  following which  bears a  close resemblance to
         the above:
         
            ---------------------------------------------------
            ®title¯. ®initial¯. ®surname¯,
            ®town¯.
            
            Dear ®first_name¯,
            
            How is  life in  ®country¯  these days ? Is your postcode
            still  ®postcode¯  ? I must go now.
            
            All the best,
            Pluto
            ---------------------------------------------------
         
         If we  then had  a data  file entered  somewhere else  which
         contained the following:
            
            Title  First   Surname   Town          Country  Postcode
            Ms     Minnie  Mouse     Disneyland    America  DL01 7MM
            Mr     George  Bush      Washington    America  WH15 2CH
            Mr     John    Major     London        Britain  SW1  1XX
            

  Mail Merge Printer                                                            
  



         We could  use a  mail-merge program  to do all the hard work
         for us.  Well, that  is exactly  what MergePr does. Once you
         have decided  on the  main text  of the standard letter, you
         simply enter  all of  the  symbols  which  you  wish  to  be
         replaced.


       

       .c.:Which symbols can I use ?


         The following  is a  list of  valid  symbols  which  can  be
         entered into  your standard  letter for  later  replacement.
         This table  shows the symbol to be used. These must be spelt
         correctly and must be enclosed in the characters "®" & "¯"1.
         Further, the  table shows what these values will be replaced
         with when  the letter  is actually  printed. Most  of  these
         correspond exactly  with labels  in the  MergeEd application
         which we will read about next.
         
            Symbol          Replacement             Example
             title          Title                   Mrs
             initial        initial of first name   A
             fname          First name              Richard
             sname          Surname                 Jones
             add1           1st line of address     Top Flat
             add2           2nd line of address     15 London Road
             add3           3rd line of address
             town           Town/city               Durham
             county         County                  Middlesex
             postcode       Postcode                AB12 3CD
             country        Country                 France
             date           current date            Fri 25 Sep
         
         Certain of  these symbols  have special  features associated
         with them.

         .c.::þ  ®initial¯

         This field  will automatically  be filled in using the first
         letter of  the replacement  for the  fname  symbol. As such,
         you need  not (as  will be described later) explicitly enter
         the initial as a field in the merge data-file.

       ____________________
         1  These characters can be entered in one of two ways:
         
                 Hold down <Control> and type 174 or 175 for the open
                 and close chevron characters respectively.
         
                 Hold down  <Control> and  press <1>  followed by <1>
                 and then  <L> or  <R> for the open and close chevron
                 characters respectively.  You may find this sequence
                 of keypresses more simple to memorise.

  Mail Merge Printer                                                            
  



         .c.::þ  ®date¯

         This field  will automatically  be replaced with the current
         date (taken from the Series system clock) in the form ddd nn
         mmm. So  for Tuesday  19 August the replacement would be Tue
         19 Aug.


       

       .c.:Standard letter is now complete - what next ?


         Now that  you have  entered the text of your letter and have
         entered all  of the symbols to be replaced there is a little
         more to  be done  in preparation - you knew there would be a
         catch. Don't worry, this should not be too difficult.
         
         There are three small steps left before you go on to produce
         your merge data-file.

         .c.::þ  Get the document layout right

         Before you  quit from  the Word application, ensure that you
         have used the menu options such as 'Styles', 'Emphases' and,
         most importantly 'Print set-up' to reflect your wishes about
         such things  as fonts  to  use,  text  effects,  
         in mind  the printer which you will eventually want to print
         all of the mail-merge letters on.
         
         Once you  have done  this, press <Psion> and <P>. Choose the
         options you  wish, bearing  in mind  that, at this stage, if
         you set  'Copies' to more than one, you will, when the mail-
         merge is complete, have this number of copies per person. So
         if you  have 50  records in  your merge  data-file  and  you
         select  5  for  copies,  you  will  eventually  produce  250
         letters. Further,  if the standard letter is two 
         some time to complete.
         
         Once you  have selected  your options  for 'Whole document',
         '
         specified earlier in the "Note this well - setting the merge
         input file"  section. Unless  you have  typed a  very  large
         letter, this  process should  finish fairly quickly. You are
         now ready to prepare the merge-data file.

  Mail Merge Printer                                                            
  



       

       .c.Creating a merge data-file




       

       .c.:MergeEd and Series 3 data


         If you  are not familiar with the Series 3 Data application,
         you are advised to refer to the Series 3 User Guide and also
         to experiment  with that  application  as  before.  This  is
         because,  as  mentioned  earlier,  the  merge  data-file  is
         entered  using  the  built-in  Data  application,  albeit  a
         version which  has, for  the time  being, put on a disguise.
         You can  get going  quickly by  positioning the highlight in
         the  System   Screen  under   the  MergeEd   icon,  pressing
         <Psion><N>, selecting  a name for your new file and pressing
         <Enter>. The MergeEd application will then be run.
         
         You will  notice that,  apart from  the  little  icon  which
         appears in the Status Window to the right of the screen, the
         screen looks  very familiar.  There is a slight con going on
         here -  this is  basically the  Series 3 Data application in
         disguise. You  should see,  down the  left hand  side of the
         screen, a list of labels which bear a very close resemblance
         to  the   symbols  which   can  be   replaced  in  the  Word
         application. These  labels leave very little required in the
         way of  explanation. You should simply enter the appropriate
         details against  the labels  as you would in the normal Data
         application:
            
            þ You can enter a new record by pressing <PSION><E>.
            
            þ You can edit an existing record by pressing <PSION><U>.
            
            þ You  can   delete  an   existing  record   by  pressing
              <PSION><D>.

         .c.::þ  Things to watch out for

         If you  do not  enter a  piece of text against a label, when
         you invoke  the mail-merge,  the symbol  referring  to  that
         field will  not be  printed. If however, you have spaces (or
         even one  space) in a field, it will be printed but may give
         puzzling results in the final letters.

         .c.::þ  Group codes

         This is  really the  only area  where the Mail-merge Printer
         differs slightly  from the  existing  applications.  If  you
         have, for  example, a number of records which you will enter

  Mail Merge Printer                                                            
  



         into your merge data-file which belong to a particular group
         (E.g. say  you knew  a great  many  Driving  Instructors  or
         French people),  you can enter into the 'Group code' field a
         unique key which identifies this record as belonging to that
         group (such  as DRIVERS or FRENCH). You can enter the key in
         any case (even mixed - fReNcH) but the key must be less than
         or equal  to eight  letters. If  it exceeds  this  limit,  a
         letter will not be printed for this record.

         .c.::þ  Can I use my existing data files

         If you  wish to  use your  existing datafiles  as the  merge
         data-file, you  needn't alter  your labels  to reflect those
         listed above.  However, the fields in you files will require
         to be  entered specifically  according to  the  order  noted
         above  -  simply  altering  your  labels  to  reflect  those
         sugested (assuming  your fields are 'out of order') will not
         cause  the   MergePr  application   to  select  the  correct
         information. Further,  other  fields  entered  in  your  own
         fields after those listed above, will happily be ignored.

  Mail Merge Printer                                                            
  



       

       .c.Performing a mail-merge print




       

       .c.:Print set-up


         You should  recall that, before writing the standard letter,
         you were  instructed to  set the  Series 3  print device  to
         'File' (See  
         the standard  letter and  printed it  to a  file and  having
         entered data  into your  merge data-file,  you now  wish  to
         merge the  two together  into  the  final  run  of  standard
         letters. It  is at  this stage  that you  choose the printer
         options which actually apply to the device you wish to print
         to. The  Print Setup  option is broken down into 3 main sub-
         options:

         .c.::þ  Serial

         This should  be chosen if you have your Series 3 attached to
         a serial  printer using  the Psion  3-Link(Serial).  If  you
         choose this  option and the printer is not actually present,
         when  you  attempt  to  print,  an  error  message  will  be
         presented because  the Series  3 is trying to send data to a
         printer which does not exist.
         
         Having selected  'Serial', you  will need to adjust a number
         of other  parameters such  as  'Baud  rate',  'Parity','Data
         bits', etc.   which define exactly how the Series 3 talks to
         the serial  printer. Do  not worry  if you do not understand
         these terms  - all  that you  need to  know is what settings
         your  printer   requires  and  set  them  on  the  Series  3
         accordingly. Your  printer documentation  (or the  Technical
         Support De
         select from  a range  of, say, baud rates on the printer, it
         doesn't really  matter which  one you  choose as long as the
         Series 3  is  using  the  same  (I.e.  if  your  printer  is
         configured to  use 4800  baud, you  must choose 4800 baus in
         the Series 3 dialog).

         .c.::þ  Parallel

         This should  be chosen if you have your Series 3 attached to
         a parallel printer using the Psion 3-Link(Parallel). As with
         the serial  printer, if  you  choose  this  option  and  the
         printer is  not actually present, when you attempt to print,
         an error message will be presented.

  Mail Merge Printer                                                            
  



         
         Having selected  '
         the advantage of being less involved than serial printing.

         .c.::þ  File

         This may  well confuse  you as  you  will  be  saying  'I've
         already printed the standard letter to a file once (see page
         8). Well  that is  true but the print file you produced then
         was used  as one  of the input files for the mail-merge. The
         picture in Appendix B may help you to see this.
         
         It is  possible that,  given that  a mail-merge  can take  a
         while to  complete, you might want to go through the motions
         of generating  the mail-merge  but you  don't have immediate
         access to  the printer  you are going to use. If this is the
         case, you  can use  MergePr to  combine the input files into
         another (correspondingly  large) temporary  dump file  which
         could then  be copied  onto, say,  a PC  to be  printed to a
         printer.
         
         N.B. If  you choose 'File' as the print device at this stage
         and actually  produce a  temporary dump file, you cannot use
         the Series  3 to  subsequently print that file to a printer.
         You would  have to copy the file to another machine (usually
         a PC)  to be  printed (E.g  from the  DOS prompt  by typing:
         "COPY dump.lis LPT1<Enter>").
         
         If you  do decide  to print  the mail-merge  to a  temporary
         file, you  will be  asked to  name that  file. Common  sense
         dictates that  this file  cannot have  the same  name as the
         merge data-file,  the standard  letter or  the  input  print
         file. If  the file  you choose  exists already, the Series 3
         will ask  you if you wish to overwrite it. If you say yes at
         this point,  the existing  file of that name will be deleted
         and the  new temporary  dump file  will replace  it. If  you
         answer no, you will have to choose a different file name.


       

       .c.:Printing


         Well it did take a while to get here, but we have arrived at
         last. Once you have done all of the above you should be back
         at the  MergePr  opening  screen.  Pressing  <Psion><P>  (or
         selecting 'Print'  from the menu) will start the mail-merge.
         If you  have not carried out a printer set-up correctly, you
         will be informed of this and you will have to do that before
         proceeding.
         
         The Series 3 will ask you to enter a group code. If you wish
         to print letters to only a selection of people whose details

  Mail Merge Printer                                                            
  



         you have  stored in  the merge data-file, you should at this
         stage, enter  the code  which appears  in the  'Group  Code'
         field of  these records in your merge data-file. If you wish
         to print  to all  of the  records in  one file, simply leave
         this box blank. Once you have typed the group code (or not).
         press <Enter>. All being well, a box will appear telling you
         the progress  of the  print. The  counter will  update every
         time a complete letter is printed.
         
         If you wish to abandon the print at any stage just press the
         letter <Q>.  The MergePr  application will stop immediately.
         However, if  you are  printing directly  to a printer, it is
         possible that  the printer  will have data stored in its own
         memory so  the printer  may take  a little  longer  to  stop
         printing. Abandoning the mail-merge will not harm your input
         print file  or merge  data-file in  any way. However, if you
         were printing to a temporary dump file, you should delete it
         as it will not be correctly formatted and is of no practical
         use.


       

       .c.:Exiting


         You can exit from the MergePr application in three ways:
            
            þ At the MergePr opening screen, press the <Menu> key and
              select 'Exit' from the 'Special' menu.
            
            þ At the  MergePr opening  screen, press  the <Psion> key
              and <X> together.
         
         You will, in both these cases be presented with a dialog box
         asking you to confirm this choice. If you subsequently press
         'Y', the  MergePr application  will then  stop and  you will
         return to the Series 3 System Screen
         
            þ At the  System Screen,  highlight  the  name  'MergePr'
              (which is  in bold)  under the  MergePr icon  and press
              <Delete>. If  the MergePr  application is able to quit,
              the application  will  then  stop  and  'MergePr'  will
              revert from being in bold letters to being not bold. If
              the application cannot quit for any reason (for example
              it may be waiting for you to select a menu option), you
              will be  told that  'MergePr is  busy'. You should then
              highlight the  name 'MergePr'  (which is in bold) under
              the MergePr icon and press <Enter>. This will bring the
              MergePr application  into the  foreground and  you  can
              then quit  from the application in one of the other two
              ways described above.

  Mail Merge Printer                                                            
  



       

       .c.:On-line help using MergePr


         Pressing the <Help> key at the MergePr opening screen:



                         .G.OPENL.PCX;3.64";1.35";PCX



         will cause  the "Help"  screen to appear. The help available
         to you  is split  into [n]  categories which  offer specific
         help on a particular subject area.


       

       .c.:About MergePr


         Pressing  <Psion><A>  at  the  MergePr  opening  screen  (or
         pressing <Menu>  and selecting 'About') will present a small
         window containing  information about  the current version of
         the application  which you  are using together with the name
         of the author.
         
         If you  have a  problem with  the application  which you are
         unable to  solve, you  should have the version number of the
         application  ready   when  you   contact  the  supplier  for
         technical support.  It is  highly likely  that this  product
         will continue  to be  developed and,  as such,  the  version
         number quickly  enables you to establish if you are using an
         out-dated version of the software.


       

       .c.:Status


         Pressing  <Psion><S>  at  the  MergePr  opening  screen  (or
         pressing <Menu> and selecting 'Status') will present a small
         window containing information about your current input print
         file, merge  data-file and  printer device  (if any,  in the
         case of all three).

  Mail Merge Printer                                                            
  



       

       .c.Appendix A - Copying to other devices


         This page is blank for the present.
         

  Mail Merge Printer                                                            
  



         .c.Appendix B - Pictorial representation of the application


                          .G.APPDESC.PCX;5";5";PCX


         The  above  picture  represents,  at  a  simple  level,  the
         different applications used to produce a mail-merge.

  Mail Merge Printer                                                            
  



       

       .c.Appendix C - The relationship between symbols and fields


         The current  version of the MergePr application supports the
         following  symbols.   They  are   shown  below   with  their
         corresponding MergeEd labels:
         
            Symbol         Label               Comment
            
            ®title¯        Title               E.g. Mr., Mrs.
            ®fname¯        First Name          E.g. John
            ®sname¯        Surname        E.g. Smith
            ®add1¯         Address 1      First line of address
            ®add2¯         Address 2      Second line of address
            ®add3¯         Address 3      Third line of address
            ®town¯         Town           E.g. Birmingham
            ®county¯       County         E.g. Surrey
            ®postcode¯          Postcode       E.g. NW8 8NQ
            ®country¯      Country        E.g. United Kingdom
            
            ®date¯         N/A            Replaced by current date1
            ®initial¯      N/A            replaced by first character
                                                    of  Title   field
            (capitalised)1
            
            N/A            Group Code          Used   as   basis   of
            selective
                                          print2
            
















       ____________________
         1  The data  relating to  these symbols  is not entered into
            the  merge   data-file.  These   symbols  are   generated
            automatically by  the application  taking the  data  from
            other sources.
         2  This field is not entered at any time as a symbol. Values
            are entered  against this  label in  the merge  data-file
            which are then used as the basis of a selctive print.

  Mail Merge Printer                                                            
  



       

       .c.Appendix D - Trouble-shooting


         This page is blank for the present.
         
