Psion Utils (c)1995 PROTRONICS USA 404-351-1055 CompuServe 71021,1544

Timekeeper turns your Psion into a full screen clock/calendar, 
a non-agenda alarm system, and a stopwatch/billing timer. When
first running Timekeeper, it defaults to the billing timer. Press
Escape to return to the main menu.

NeoClock ScreenSaver

After selecting NeoClock, you can press 0 to turn the screen saver on.
Timekeeper must be left running in background at it's main menu for the 
screen saver feature to function. Just press a key to exit the screen
saver and return to your previous app.

NeoClock is also handy for timing speeches and will speak the time on the
hour (you must have our Dialer program: register below and receive it free)
or if you press the spacebar. To enable this feature on, press V while the
clock is running.

Alarm/Timer

Alarmed is similar to the Time App except that you can enter a relative
time rather than a fixed time/date. To enter a relative time, enter the
hours and minutes under Timer. If you want to take a 1 hour nap you just
enter 01:00, or boil a 3 minute egg, enter 00:03. The time and date will
be ignored if you have entered a value under Timer. You can enter your
own custom message if you like. Your default sound will be used.

$topwatch/Billing Timer

This utility tracks time in seconds, minutes, & hours and calculates the
money you have earned. If you take a break, press the Spacebar to halt
the billing and press it again when you return to resume. The rate defaults
to $75/hour and can be changed by pressing $ (if you'd like to change it 
permanently, please register). Escape exits back to the main menu, Tab
resets to 0. Pressing 1 or 2 shows split times to the tenth of a second.

When you are done, you can press Space to pause or press B to send billing
information to the spreadsheet file \SPR\BILLING.SPR. A new entry will be
made after the last row. Do not Format rows below the last entry or you
will get blank rows in your sheet. Timekeeper is automatically exited.

The next version can automatically round the $ amount (up) to the nearest 
15, 30, or 60 minutes, etc when paused or sent to the speadsheet. Please 
register if you'd like this free upgrade.

A special feature of the stopwatch is that by pressing 0, you can change the
start time. This is handy if you forget to start the billing timer or need to
make an adjustment. If you enter a future hour, the stopwatch will countdown 
to zero hour. You can pause the countdown by pressing space - which is handy 
if you work for NASA (although we cannot guarantee a successful launch).


We are working on a simple speech recognition app for speed dialing
and a text to speech util that will give the Psion 3a a spoken agenda, 
document reader, more personality, and other capabilities.

Send us a $25 registration fee, and you will receive all of our Psion
utils via e-mail over the Internet (uuencoded) or CompuServe (zipped).

International users may register via CompuServe (GO SWREG  ID#: 2371)
Registered users get free utility updates for the life of the product
Protronics USA 499 Northside Circle, Suite 420, Atlanta GA 30309-2112
Psion Utils (c)1995 PROTRONICS USA 404-351-1055 CompuServe 71021,1544
