    StopW by Rick Andrews

StopW is a battery friendly stopwatch application for the Psion
Series 3 pocket computer. It is freeware.

This document is the user guide for the StopW application version
1.04, dated 4 April 93.

Installation:
1. Copy STOPW104.OPA into the \APP directory on M:, A: or B:.
2. Install it using Psion-I.
Thats all there is.

I have included the following files:  STOPW104.OPL and STOPW.PIC are
the opl source code and icon bitmap respectively, which are used to
produce the .OPA file. The icon represents a stopwatch.

Freeware:
This utility is freeware; there is no registration fee to pay, and
you may copy the program freely. If you have any comments, or are
worried about a bug you've found, please contact me :- Rick Andrews,
164 Castle Hill, Reading, United Knigdom   RG1 7RP

The software:
The following article first appeared in Ipso Facto, October 92
issue...

--------------------------------------------------------------------

This months Series 3 utility is a stopwatch that's friendly to
batteries. The start time is written in a data file, so the computer
can be turned off whilst timing long duration events.

Most stopwatch programs rely on the Series 3 remaining switched on
because they count elapsed time; the one in the Psion Programming
Manual, for example, will 'stop' and lose time if the computer is
switched off, so to be of any use, you have to ensure the computer
won't auto-switch off.

This stopwatch, however, stores the actual time that the activity
commenced, (as the number of seconds since midnight 1 Jan 1970) in a
datafile on the default drive, so the elapsed time can be calculated
when the utility is re-run.

Also, a short description can be stored in the data file, in case you
forget what you're timing.

The utility is simple to use; the first time it is run, it waits
until Enter is pressed, then immediately starts timing the event. A
short description can then be entered. The elapsed time is displayed
"ticking away" in double height. Here, the Menu key or hot-key allows
the following:-

L - Lap. The lap time is displayed.
S - Stop or Start. Switches between running and stopped.
Z - Zero. Resets a stopped stopwatch.
X - Exit. Quits a stopped or running stopwatch. The start time and
current details are saved in a data file, ready for the next time the
utility is run.
K - Kill. Quits a stopped stopwatch. Deletes the data file and exits
the utility.
D - Desc. Edit the event description.

The elapsed time and lap time displays also show the number of days
if the event was started more than 24 hours ago.

If you exit (Psion-x) the utility which saves the event details, the
next time the utility is run, the elapsed time is displayed straight
away.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Please note that this version of the application has changed since it
was published in Ipso Facto. It includes the auto-switch off defect
fix, and is now an application.

About Ipso:
Ipso Facto is an independent Psion Organiser II and Series 3 user
group magazine, edited by Mike O'Regan. If you wish to subscribe, or
want further information, please contact him on 0602 735482, or write
to Ipso Facto, 130 Stapleford Lane, Beeston, Nottingham NG9 6GB.


Keep PSIONing!

