July 10th, 1999

Pelican Software Inc
Notepad Deluxe Update 1.01 (R4)
http://www.npdeluxe.com
support@pelicansoft.com
--------------------------------

PUpdater 1.02 can safely be removed from the Add/Remove control 
panel after the update is done.

Notepad version 1.01 (Rev 4) is a free update for all Notepad 
users. It contains the following changes:

1. Support for the new Series 5mx
2. New features (See Rev4notes.txt)
3. Bug fixes


INSTALLATION:

PUpdater.sis installs an application called PUpdater to your Psion 
or Geofox-One computer. PUpdater shows up on the Extras bar as 
any other program.

Once installed, run PUpdater to update your copy of Notepad to 
Version 1.01 (R4). The Updater application knows which version 
you are running, so it will not apply the update unless it is 
needed. The current PUpdater can update R1, R2, and R3 versions 
of Notepad to R4. (EPOC machines only)


UPGRADING TO 5MX:

PUpdater can only update a legal installed version of Notepad. 
Your previous version of Notepad should be copied to the 5mx 
(to the same directory) so that the updater application can find it.


FILES NEEDED:

PUpdater.sis installs only three files to your handheld computer.

	1. PUpdate.app
	2. PUpdate.aif
	3. Notepad.dat

* Note that just installing the Pupdater.sis file does NOT install 
the Notepad upgrade. You must run the PUpdater application once it 
is installed to the handheld.

The files for the update reside in the \system\apps\PUpdate folder, 
although you should never need to manually locate these files since 
PUpdate shows up on the Extras bar. The updater takes over 400k of 
disk space, so you may want to remove it after the update is complete. 
The easiest way to get rid of the PUpdater application is to remove 
it using the Add/Remove control panel.



PROBLEMS:

If Notepad complains about an OPX file when starting, try uninstalling 
sysram1.opx and then reinstalling the Notepad update.

If the process of updating fails for some reason, make sure that you 
do the following:

1. Make sure you're not low on system memory. PUpdate doesn't need a 
   lot of memory to run, but it does need at least 150k of system memory.
2. Make sure you have at least 200k of disk space free on the drive where 
   Notepad resides.
3. If the update fails, and the updater can no longer find a valid copy 
   of Notepad, you will need to reinstall Notepad first, and then apply 
   the update again. To assure this will work cleanly, first uninstall 
   Notepad from the Add/Remove control panel, and then reinstall it from 
   the Notepad.sis file.

Incompatible OPX versions or OPX not found messages:

This message can come up after installing the Notepad upgrade. It is 
usually caused by other programs being open when the Notepad upgrade 
was performed. If all programs are not shut down, the OPX file can 
remain in memory, and this stops the new Notepad version from starting, 
since it needs the newer version of the OPX to run correctly. 

The solution is to shut down all running applications and then try to 
launch Notepad again. If it still won't run, try re-installing Notepad 
again, letting it re-install the .sis files.

Note that it may be necessary to uninstall sysram1.opx before installing 
the new version of Notepad.