Welcome to Notepad Deluxe
Version 1.01, Revision 4
Released on July 10th, 1999

©1999 Pelican Software Inc



Rev 4 Notes
-----------------
1. New feature - 'Shared Notepad' - Create a new note on 
   the Top level, and enter the text 'Shared Notepad'. 
   Save the note. Now when you press the right arrow on 
   this note, a different notepad is opened. This notepad
   can be shared among all notepad files by adding the 
   note called 'Shared Notepad' to each Notepad file.

2. Required changes made to the database to handle the new 
   EPOC operating system. (ER5) The database and faster 
   processor give Notepad huge speed improvements. This 
   should allow users to create larger notepad files without 
   having to move data to a new file.

3. New features related to customizing the view
   - 'Save current view' lets you save the current custom 
     view and name it, making it easier to use it again.
   - 'Delete custom view' lets you delete any custom views that 
     were saved.
   - New option in the 'Customize view' dialog called 'Select 
     from saved' lets you choose from a list of saved views. 
     The default custom views that were provided in earlier 
     versions of Notepad from the 'Select custom' menu item are 
     now included in the custom list.

4. Support for the non-wav sound files. (Chimes, Rings, and Signal)

5. The Move.opo add-on (released in May 1998) is no longer needed. 
   It is included with Notepad now.  When choosing 'Cut' from the 
   menu, Notepad gives you the choice to move the note, or just 
   cut it.

6. New name for Web browser on new EPOC devices supported. 
   (Browser.app is now Web.app. Both are supported.)

7. New Contacts program supported. To use the new contacts 
   application as your contact manager, choose 'View preferences/
   Contact linking' and type in ‘Contacts’.

8. Calendar view changes:
   - New Quit button added to make it easier to return to the main 
     view.
   - After a successful find, the focus is changed to the list 
     automatically.
   - Due dates can be edited. Press Enter on an item to edit the 
     text and due date.
   - Calendar uses system settings to determine first day of week. 
     (Sunday and Monday are supported)
   - When editing a note the button to save changes is Save and 
      Escape to quit, instead of Save and OK, which was confusing.

9. When creating a new link to a file, Notepad prompts to overwrite 
   the file if it exists, rather than just overwriting it.

10. The custom view that shows '(All) due this week' uses the 
    system settings to determine the first day of the week. 
    (Sunday and Monday are supported)

11. Spell Checking removed due to licensing problems with the 
    owners of the built-in spell checker. Pelican Software regrets 
    having to do this, and every attempt was made to negotiate a 
    contract with Lernout & Hauspie Speech Products. Unfortunately, 
    the licensing fees for such a small feature were too high to 
    justify.

12. New Preference - Show reminders when date has changed.

13. Fixed problems linking to Web browser.

14. Links to voice notes start to play automatically when launched

15. Setting an application link of type: Powerbase, Data, Contact 
    or Contacts forces Notepad's contact linking to use the 
    specified application link instead of the contact linking
    program set in the preferences. This gives Notepad greater 
    flexibility with contact links by letting you select a custom 
    database for any contact link.
   
16. Support for RMRContact as a contact link program. To use 
    RMRContact as your default contact manager set the contacts 
    program name to 'Contact' in the General preferences/Contact 
    linking preferences. (Not 'Contacts'.   Contacts is the 
    built-in contact manager on the Series 5mx and other 
    EPOC ER5 machines.)

17. Various Bug fixes
