                                  
                           REVTRAN Manual
                                  
                     Version 6.2, March 1999


Introduction

   Revtran is a program for Psion handheld computers, which reverse-
   translates translated programs back into moderately intelligible
   OPL source code.  It is written in OPL, and will run on the Series
   3/3a/3c/5, the Workabout, and probably the Series 3mx.  Not the
   Siena.  Revtran processes Series 3/3a, Workabout, HC, MC (all
   OPL16) and Series 5 (OPL32) OPL programs.


Uses

   You might use Revtran on your own programs, e.g. if you have
   lost the source code, or you want to regress to an earlier
   version of a program where you have deleted the earlier source
   code.
   
   You might use Revtran on someone else's programs, for a variety
   of reasons, for example:
   
   - to do minor bugfixes, and to make adjustments and improvements
     to a user interface for your own use.
   - to remove features that you don't use, and which are taking up
     space.
   - to understand the data file formats used, so you can read or
     write them from another program.
   - to convert a .OPO to a .OPA or vice versa.
   - to extract, remove, replace or add an icon picture in a .OPA.
   - to help port applications from one machine to another.
   - to learn from others' experience.
   - NOT to hack into authorisation mechanisms etc.!
   
   NOTE: whatever your reason for using Revtran, please DO NOT
   distribute any modified programs without the original author's
   approval.  See the 'Ethics' section below.


What's new in V6.2

   V6.2 fixes bugs that were found in V6.1, including processing of
   dEDITMULTI, GETDOC$, INPUT, and BYREF parameters in OPX calls.
   Also, "String too long" errors should no longer occur.

   V6.1 is the first release since V4.2 was released in 1995.  The
   major feature added is the ability to reverse-translate OPL32
   programs (e.g. Series5).  The Series 3/3a versions have had very
   minor bugfixes, and will now run slower than before, due to
   additional 32-bit arithmetic in the source code for commonality
   with the series 5 version, plus improved error-recovery code.
   N.B. there have been a few unofficial "version 5" versions of
   Revtran created by others and which may have had a limited
   distribution.  There is no official V5.x version.


Installation

   You should have unzipped the following files:
   
   REVTRAN.TXT  This documentation file.
   REVTRAN.TBL  A look-up table used by Revtran.

   RVTRN3.OPA   Series 3 or Workabout version of the program.
   
   RVTRN3A.OPA  Series 3a/3c/3mx version of the program.
   
   REVTRAN.APP  Series 5 version of the program.
   REVTRAN.AIF  Series 5 Application Information File.
   
 Installation for Series 5:

   Make sure the 'System' folder is visible, using
   the System screen's Ctrl+K dialog.
   Create a directory System\Apps\Revtran.
   Copy REVTRAN.TBL, REVTRAN.APP and REVTRAN.AIF into the new directory.
   Revtran should now appear on the Extras bar.

 Installation for other machines:

   Put REVTRAN.TBL in a \APP or \APP\REVTRAN directory on disk A, B
   or M.  Put RVTRN3.OPA or RVTRN3A.OPA (depending on the machine) in
   any directory, and "Install" it from the System screen.
   Note: for Series 3, you may be better sticking with Revtran v4.2,
   which will run faster.
   
   You can rename the .OPA file to anything you like, but
   REVTRAN.TBL must have that name.


Running the program

   Start the Revtran application, then choose appropriate items
   from the menus presented, as follows.
   
   (Open File) This opens a .OPO or .OPA file and checks its basic
   details.  The default directory for input files is \APP (3/3a) or
   \System\Apps (5), but normal Psion dialogs are used when selecting
   input and output files, so you can use Tab or Control-Tab to change
   directory, e.g. to \OPO.  It is also possible to open .IMG, .APP,
   .ALS, .GRP, .PIC and .AIF files; these contain no translated OPL
   code, but may contain an embedded PIC file (usually an Icon), which
   Revtran can extract.  On the 3/3a, if you wish to access files in
   the machine's internal ROM, do the following in the 'Open input
   file' dialog:

   1. With cursor on the top line, press Control-Tab.
   2. Edit the 'Full path' line to show "ROM::".
   3. Press Control-Enter, then scroll the Name selector.
   
   (Open Application) On the Series 5 version, you can use this option
   to simultaneously open the .APP/.AIF pair of files making up an
   application.  The dialog presents a choice of all the valid OPL
   applications on the machine, including the ROM ones.

   (Write PIC/MBM) If the input file or application contains an icon
   picture, you should write the picture out to a bitmap (.PIC or
   .MBM) file or files if you wish to reconstruct an identical .OPA
   later, because the reverse-translated OPL source will need to make
   a reference to the bitmap file(s).  Some other file types also have
   embedded PIC files, possibly with multiple bitmaps, not all of
   which are icon-related (e.g. in ROM::WORLD.APP on the 3/3a).  You
   can select which bitmaps to write out; e.g. a pair of 48x48 bitmaps
   to describe the black and grey planes of a Series 3a icon, or a
   24x24 bitmap for a Series 3 icon.  On the 3/3a, the bitmaps will be
   put in the M:\PIC directory by default.

   (Write OPL) When you write out reverse-translated OPL16 OPL, you're
   given the option of adding or discarding an APP..ENDA section, by
   choosing an OPA or OPO module type.  If you keep or add an
   APP..ENDA section, you'll be prompted for the parameters to insert
   (although as many as possible are copied from the original by
   default).  If you put a blank entry in the dialog for PATH, EXT or
   ICON, then that line will be omitted from the APP..ENDA section.
   
   If you choose to alter the 'Text features', you can adjust several
   things.  You can change how new local variable and procedure
   parameter names are invented, but bear in mind that you may cause
   name clashes with global variables.  You can choose to output
   various amounts of comments - see below.  You can choose
   Hexadecimal output for all integer literals, although some integer
   literals will be output in hex even if Decimal is selected, to
   ensure that data types are unchanged.  If you find that
   reverse-translated OPL has too many nested levels of structure, you
   can flatten out the 'ELSE' clauses by choosing 'No ELSE' for the
   'ELSE and WHILE' item.  If the OPL appears to have missing 'ENDWH'
   statements, this may be due to mis-interpretation of
   poorly-structured code, and you can choose 'No WHILE', which will
   result in 'IF' and 'GOTO' being used to achieve the correct
   behaviour.
   

Output comments

   In the 'text features' settings, you can choose to output Terse,
   Medium or Verbose comments in the OPL output.  With 'Medium'
   selected, some additional 'REM' statements will be added to the OPL
   output to record some numerical details which may help in debugging
   a Revtran problem.  Also, for OPL32 code, 'Include' file comments
   are output, and OPX call comments are output in pass 1, to help in
   re-creating missing .oxh files.

   With 'Verbose' comments selected, source addresses are added to the
   end of each line.  Also, OPX call comments are output during both
   pass 1 and pass 3, and data type conversions are shown in square
   brackets, both of which make the output OPL untranslatable, so you
   should only use Verbose output temporarily.  The data type marks
   are [%], [&], [f] and [$], for integer, long, float and string
   respectively.  They are inserted before the assignment "="
   operator, before comparison operators, and before procedure
   parameter expressions which are type-converted automatically before
   being passed.  A type mark is also inserted before any procedure
   call which is made without its return values being used, such as
   when the call is the first item on a line of code, and in this case
   the mark indicates the return type.


Selection of PROCs to reverse-translate

   If there is more than one translated procedure, you can select a
   range of procedures to reverse-translate (from 'First proc' to
   'Last proc').  This range defaults to all the procedures in the
   file.  If you specify a 'First proc' number which is larger than
   'Last proc', then all procedures will be skipped, and you will
   just get a REM statement naming each procedure.


OPX calls and missing .OXH header files

   In OPL32 code (Series 5), there may be references to OPX routines,
   in which case Revtran needs to be able to open the corresponding
   .OXH file(s) during reverse-translation in order to find the
   routines' names, numbers of parameters and each parameter's calling
   scheme (by value or BYREF).  If the .OXH file is not available,
   then the calling PROC will be skipped.  You may be able to
   incrementally build up the missing .OXH file(s) manually, giving
   the OPX routines arbitrary names, and making guesses at the number
   of parameters until Revtran succeeds in reverse-translating the OPX
   calls and nearby code.  This takes a lot of manual effort!
   Selecting 'Verbose' comments and Hexadecimal numbers in the output
   file is useful, as this gives more information on the types of data
   being passed to each call, and the return types.  As a first stab
   you should try declaring the same number of parameters as the stack
   depth reported at the point the call is made, but you should reduce
   the number if missing stack items are then reported.  Incorrect
   numbers of parameters will upset the parsing of subsequent code,
   causing various errors.  So you might end up with something like:

   DECLARE OPX MISSING,&10001234,$100
     Missing3:(p1,p2)       :3
     Missing34:(p1,p2,p3)   :34
   END DECLARE

   Once you have the numbers of parameters correct, you can refine the
   .OXH file so that the parameter types and return type are
   compatible with the ones reported by the 'Verbose' type marks.  The
   presence of 'ADDR()' in a call implies either a BYREF parameter or
   a longword address.  It is important to get the parameter types
   correct, otherwise there will be run-time errors when the OPX is
   called from re-translated code.  So after further manual analysis
   and refinement you may now have:

   DECLARE OPX MISSING,&10001234,$100
     Missing3&:(p1%,p2%)        :3
     Missing34$:(p1$,p2%,p3&)   :34
   END DECLARE

   At this stage you can do a final complete reverse-translation with
   Verbose comments switched off.


Capabilities and limitations

   Revtran is intended to cope with all the OPL language constructs
   described in the Series 3a Programming Manual (Version 1.0), plus
   the 'dINITS' statement introduced for the Workabout, plus all
   OPL32 language consructs.  It will only take as input OPO, OPA and
   APP files created as a result of translating OPL source code.  It
   cannot process the compiled version of 'C' source code etc.,
   e.g. .IMG files, other than to extract an icon picture.
   
   Versions of the Revtran program for different machines all have
   similar functionality, e.g. the Series 5 version can process Series
   3 OPO/OPA files.  However, the Series 3/3a version will not handle
   AIF files, nor any OPX calls in translated OPL32 code.  The Series
   3/3a version writes OPL code as a plain text file.  The Series 5
   version writes OPL code in 'texted' OPL32 source form.
   
   If you translate something from, say, English to Japanese, then
   reverse-translate back to English, you'll lose something in both
   directions.  Unfortunately, the situation with Revtran is
   similar.  Most of the information loss is in the 'translate'
   direction; see the 'differences' sections below.
   
   There are a few arbitrary limits hard-coded into Revtran.  In
   each procedure to be reverse-translated, there can be no more
   than 40 parameters, 200 global declarations, 100 local
   declarations, 100 string declarations (local and global
   combined), 100 different references to other procedures, 100
   different references to external globals, and 1200 commands.  In
   this context, an unconditional jump (whether a 'GOTO' or as a
   translated part of an 'IF..ENDIF' construct etc.) counts as a
   'command'.  Also, any single command, when reverse-translated,
   is limited to 255 characters in length; whether or not this
   limit is breached will be affected by the choice of invented
   names for locals and parameters, and by the indentation string.

   Revtran does not run particularly quickly, even for an OPL
   program, partly because dynamic storage allocation is achieved
   by doing recursive calls to a procedure with a large local
   storage area.  On a Series 3, with all files on the internal
   disk, Revtran processes roughly 400 bytes of input file per
   minute.  On the emulator (EHWIM) running on a reasonably fast
   PC, it achieves about 4k per minute.  The Series 3a and Series 5
   versions are much faster, due to procedure cacheing and a
   faster CPU.


Error handling and bugs

   Revtran will check the input file header and refuse to attempt
   reverse-translation if the signature is not "OPLObjectFile**" for
   OPL16, or if the UIDs are not correct for OPL32, although PIC file
   extraction is allowed with some other signatures.  After that, if
   Revtran encounters something it isn't prepared for in the file, it
   is likely to raise an error message, but not recover very well;
   please let me know if this happens and you can't fix it (but see
   'Ethics' section below).  Apart from the File dialog problem
   mentioned below, I know of no bugs at present, but no doubt there
   are some!  My understanding of .OPA/.OPO/.APP file content is based
   mostly on guesswork, not hard fact, so I've probably got some
   misconceptions, which will account for some of the bugs.

   If the errors are bad enough to crash the Series 5 Revtran (this
   really should not happen from version 6.2 onwards), then the output
   OPL file will not be closed correctly (missing trailer), and any
   attempt to open it in the normal way (TextEd) will give a 'Corrupt'
   error.  You may then need a third-party program to convert it to a
   readable form to find out what went wrong; see my Web site for
   further news on this subject.

   On the Series 5 (ROM version 1.01), the 'dFile' dialog, as
   used in Revtran's Open File dialog, can crash the program if
   the Folder entry is selected, then Tab is pressed, or the
   Folder entry is touched with the pen.  A workaround is to
   temporarily select a different Disk before attempting this.


Technical description

   Translation
   
   After you write an OPL module, you 'translate' it to produce a
   .OPO, .OPA or .APP file.  There is no form of security encryption
   involved; the purpose of translation is mainly to create a
   syntax-checked, semi-interpreted, compact version of the source
   code.  The resulting file is mainly a list of procedures encoded in
   'Q-code', which is executed by a software 'virtual machine', the
   Runtime Interpreter, in the Series 3/3a/5 when you run the program.
   The Q-code uses stack-based reverse-Polish logic, i.e.  postfix
   operators etc.  Each OPL function or command is translated to a
   specific code (one or two bytes usually).  OPL control structure
   keywords (e.g. GOTO, IF..ENDIF, CONTINUE) are translated into jumps
   and conditional jumps.  OPL global variable names and procedure
   names are stored unchanged (in upper case).  OPL local variable
   names and procedure parameters are converted to numbered storage
   locations, and their names are lost.  'REM' comments are discarded.
   Any ICON picture is incorporated in-line.

   My interpretation of the Q-Code syntax (up to S3a) has been
   incorporated by Clive Feather into his Psionics files, at
   http://www.davros.org/psion/psionics/
   The S5-specific Q-code details are not yet there, and should appear
   first on my website, http://www.cix.co.uk/~mrudin
   
   Reverse-translation
   
   To regenerate OPL from a Q-code file, Revtran first decodes the
   file header, extracting any APP details (perhaps including an
   icon picture).  Then it deals with each procedure, after
   extracting global variables etc., in three passes:
   
   Pass 1:  All the commands, variable assignments and jumps are
            identified (each command potentially invoking functions
            in its parameters), and local variables are found.
   
   Pass 2:  In three sub-passes, by analysing the jumps, the
            original control structure is inferred (this is one of
            the more tricky bits, but it runs quickly).
   
   Pass 3:  Each command is turned into text, with the addition of
            control structure keywords and indentation.  PRINT,
            LPRINT and GPRINT commands, which were translated
            piecemeal, are reconstructed.
   
   During Pass 1 and Pass 3, Revtran needs to know how to decode
   particular Q-code values into the original OPL keywords.  Some
   of this information is included in the Revtran program itself,
   but most of the run-of-the-mill Function and Command keywords
   are decoded by reference to the external table REVTRAN.TBL,
   which was previously generated by MKTABLE.OPO (not included in
   this package of files).  Revtran behaves a bit like a Q-code
   interpreter in these phases, tracking the way that values are
   placed on a stack, and then are replaced by functions and
   removed by commands.
   The heuristics that Revtran uses in Pass 2 are unlikely to be
   foolproof, but have worked on all the test cases I have tried,
   with the exception of a case in which a 'GOTO' just 
   before 'ENDIF' can (rarely) cause a 'WHILE' to be 
   interpreted mistakenly.  If you find any other example 
   which causes 'unexpected UNTIL', 'structure fault' etc., 
   please let me know.


Differences between original and reverse-translated OPL source code

   The Series5 version of Revtran outputs OPL as an OPL32-style
   file, i.e. with UID header and special linefeed characters,
   although the original OPL may have been a simple text file.
   Any comments in the original OPL are lost.
   Any pre-processor directives (e.g. for HHTRAN or S3ATRAN) are
   lost.
   Indentation and spacing will be different, and there will only
   be one command per line (no use of ":").
   Global and local declarations are made in a different order (all
   the globals then all the locals), but the translated effect
   should be the same.  Storage space for originally declared but
   unreferenced locals will be reserved by new dummy declarations
   which may be of different data types (integers and strings
   only).
   Local variables, procedure parameters and labels all lose their
   original names, and are given invented ones.
   All global variables and procedure names are shown with an 
   initial capital letter, and remaining letters in lower case.
   Data file record field names are shown in upper-case.  Names of
   arrays for use in ADDR or var-parameters are always like
   "arr()", where the original might have used the "arr(1)" form.
   Literal integers may be represented differently, e.g. "$0020"
   would be reverse-translated as "32" (although, if you wish, you
   can turn on Hex output for literals).
   Literal floating-point numbers may be represented differently,
   e.g. "2.323E04" would be reverse-translated as "23230.0".
   Unnecessary brackets in expressions are generally not included;
   operator precedence rules are applied.  The main exception to
   this is that a pair of brackets is always inserted when the '#'
   feature is used for var-parameters.
   Lists of expressions and commas in PRINT, LPRINT and GPRINT
   commands, may be split into a different number of commands, but
   the effect should be the same.
   Any labels which are not jumped to will vanish, and some
   original GOTO commands may be replaced by functionally
   equivalent BREAK, CONTINUE or ELSE/ELSEIF constructs.


Differences between original and re-translated .OPO/.OPA

   If you re-translate Revtran output and compare the result
   against the original .OPO/.OPA, then functionally there should
   be no difference when the program runs, but some of the bytes
   may be different, as follows:
   
   Encoded source line numbers will usually be different.
   The source file pathname may be different.
   You may have changed, removed or added an icon picture.
   There may be other differences if a different translator version
   is used.


Ethics

   Revtran is intended for private use, and must not be used to
   create OPL source code which is subsequently transferred to
   anyone else (whether modified or not, and whether re-translated
   or not).  European law allows reverse-engineering in certain
   reasonable circumstances, but anything sold as a result of
   reverse-engineering is likely to be a breach of copyright.
   
   Regardless of the law, if a software author clearly does not
   want you to see the structure of his program, then it would be
   unethical for you to use Revtran on it.  See also the lengthy
   discussion on the CIX psion/2_series3 topic, starting at
   messages #858 and #903.
   
   If you experience an error while processing another author's
   program, this may be because he has included code to deliberately
   exceed one of Revtran's limitations.  If the author has explicitly
   requested that you don't reverse-translate, then please don't
   report the problem to me as a bug, as I won't fix it.  However,
   from version 6.2, I don't expect Revtran to crash completely on an
   error, but at most to skip a troublesome PROC, so please let me
   know the details of any crashes (i.e. where the entire program
   terminates unexpectedly).


Preventing reverse-translation

   Despite the above guidance to software users, some authors may
   wish to prevent users from reverse-translating their code.  The
   simplest approach is to put a polite request to this effect in a
   program's documentation.
   The translation of OPL into .OPA/.OPO/.APP is not very secure;
   the process is direct and easily reversible.  The best way to
   acheive good security is to write in 'C' or some other compiled
   language.  For OPL32, you could write any sensitive code in C++
   as an OPX.
   Listed below are some options for improving the privacy of OPL
   programs, but please do not ask me for more details, as I am not
   interested or experienced in defeating Revtran.
   
   1. Modify all procedure and global variable names to make them
   meaningless.  This can be done before translation, or using a
   special program after translation.  If done after translation,
   it is possible to replace alphabetic characters with non-
   printing control characters for greater obscurity.
   
   2. Replace some non-executed parts of the translated program
   with garbage, so that a reverse-translator such as Revtran will
   stumble or crash.  A dedicated hacker will easily overcome this,
   by manually interpreting the Q-code structure, and modifying it
   using a hex editor.
   
   3. Find some limit or bug in Revtran, and include code that crashes
   Revtran by exploiting it.  This is unreliable, as a future version
   of Revtran may have bugs fixed, and anyone is free to make a
   modified copy of Revtran with the limitation removed.
   
   There are programs about such as OPP, NoRev and so on that offer
   some degree of protection based on the above techniques; it's up to
   you to track these down as I have no interest in them.

Distribution and (lack of) support

   I'm distributing Revtran as Smileware - if you use it 
   and like it, then smile :-)  I wrote Revtran largely out 
   of curiosity and to get myself familiar with OPL, rather 
   than to make money (as opposed to the people who make money
   selling anti-Revtran programs!!).  Even so, you're welcome
   to send tokens of appreciation if you find Revtran useful!
   I do not promise any user support (try me anyway), but would
   welcome bug reports and constructive criticism.  Why not drop me
   a line anyway as a sort of informal registration.  Please quote
   version number and machine type.
   Over half the code for Series 5 support (new in v6.1) was developed
   by Gareth James, and a couple of small improvements were suggested
   by Gavin Lewarne.  Apart from these details, Revtran is all my own
   work, and if you use any of the better bits of my source code,
   please credit me as author.
   You are welcome to use Revtran on itself (but don't distribute any
   changed version), and if you need access to the original source
   code I will give it and other notes to you for a fee of 15 pounds
   sterling.

   You may freely give Revtran to your friends, unmodified and
   including REVTRAN.TXT, but if you wish to make it any more
   public (on a BBS or website for example), let me know so that I
   have a chance of keeping it up-to-date.  The best way to list it
   on the Web is to link to my home page http://www.cix.co.uk/~mrudin
   
   You may find the most recent version on CIX, in the psion/files
   topic, or at the Imperial College Sunsite in
   ftp://anonymous@src.doc.ic.ac.uk/packages/psion/icdoc/development/,
   or on my web page http://www.cix.co.uk/~mrudin.


Copyright etc.

   Revtran is copyright of the author.
   
   You must not use Revtran (source code or executable) for
   financial gain or to infringe other authors' copyright.  It is
   your responsibility to use Revtran within the law.
   
   No warranty is given on this program.  No liability for any
   damage or loss to equipment, data or software will be assumed.
   You use this program at your own risk.
   
   Revtran must not be sold, and may be freely distributed (see
   above) provided that this copyright notice always accompanies it
   unaltered.  Revtran must not be used commercially, but otherwise
   permission is granted for free use of the program and its source
   code in any legal way which does not involve financial gain.
   
   Psion is a registered trademark, and Psion Series 3, Series 3a,
   Series 5, Workabout and SSD are trademarks of Psion PLC.  IBM
   PC is a trademark of International Business Machines Corp.


Author

   Mike Rudin
   26 Lovell Rd,
   Cambridge
   ENGLAND
   CB4 2QR
   
   Or email me on CIX:
   mrudin@cix.compulink.co.uk
   http://www.cix.co.uk/~mrudin


[End of Revtran manual]
