Info Centre Version 1.01

Copyright Chris Nicholson - January 1998

Please mail all suggestions, comments or details of problems to me at 
ChrisNicholson1@csi.com

Visit my web site at http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/chrisnicholson1
for all the latest information and updates on my programs.


REGISTRATION

Info Centre is shareware. You can use it free for 21 days, after this it 
must be registered. 
               
This software represents many hours of programming, so if you like it please register.

Info Centre V1.01 can be registered in two ways.

. Compuserve On-line registration ($20) via "Go Swreg" SWREG ID = 16760

. By Mail, send a cheque for £12, made payable to Chris Nicholson, to

	26 The Elms
	Hertford
	Herts
	SG13 7UX
	England

DISCLAIMER

No responsibility is accepted by the author for any loss of data, however 
caused, by the use or misuse of Info Centre. The responsibility for any consequences
of installation or use rest solely with the user. No warranties or guarantees of 
any kind are available. 


DISTRIBUTION

Info Centre is freely distributable to anyone so long as it is distributed in 
UNMODIFIED FORM along with this unmodified readme file, and that no fees are charged.  


INSTALLATION

Infocen.opa 	\app
Info1.opo 	\app\infocen
Jbsortb.img	Internal M:\app			Sort module (please note that this is the new version)
Private.lbl	\app\infocen			Sample file
Default.lbl	\app\infocen			Sample file
Infocen.opd	\app\infocen			Sample file
Business.opd	\app\infocen\link		Sample file
Private.opd	\app\infocen\link		Sample file

Then install on the system screen using Psion-I. 


GETTING STARTED

To create a new file go to the system screen and highlight Infocen with the cursor. Press
Psion-n and enter the name required, the progarm will then open creating a new file.

The concept behind Infocen is that all files can be accessed from one area. Essentially 
it is a database where each record can have a Word, Sheet, Data and another Infocen file 
attached to it. Each Infocen file can have a seperate set of labels applied to it so allowing
multiple files to be stored.

I have set mine up so that the first file has the following records:

Spreadsheet file - this links to another Infocen file that has all my spreadsheet files listed.

Spreadsheet files - 	1998 Sales Performance - (linked to 1998.spr)
			1097 Sales Performance - (linked to 1997.spr)
			Risk Accessment - (linked to risk.spr)

Word file - this links to another Infocen file taht has all my spreadsheet files listed.

Word files - 		Memo - Creative suggestions - (linked to M010498.wrd)
			Report - December 1997 - (linked to R221297.wrd)

Personal contacts - linked to another Infocen file that has all my personal contacts imported.
Business contacts - linked to another Infocen file that has all my business contacts imported.
Data records - This links to another Infocen file that contains descriptions of all the Data
files that I do not want to import.

Where the program becomes really useful is that when you use the find option it will look in
all of the Infocen files to find the required word. When it finds a matching record it will show
the first three fields of the first two pages. This allows you to look up and find data with 
actually moving from the current position, as long as the data you require is in the aplicable fields.
I have imported all the names and numbers into these fields.

The arrow keys move you around the records and to link backwards and forwards. Other keys are Psion S,W & C
to link to Sheet, Word or Data.

The best way to discover the capabilities is to creat a top record and organise your data from there.

Version 1.01

Initial release