Graph



The graph plotting and mathematical package for the Psion series 3



Installation



Copy Gplot.app to any \APP directory, copy Xgplot.app to the same
\APP directory.  Install Gplot from the system screen using Psion+I.



Use of Gplot



Gplot is shareware, this means if you use it you should register. 
Registration will bring you updates for free, along with notification,
by email.  Or for a minimal shipping charge by snail mail.

Gplot is not crippled in any way, your only incentive to register is
your concience and the desire to persuade me to produce more
software.



Current Functions



3 Windows for graphs, 1 full screen 2 half screen windows.

Plotting of any function that can be evaluated in "Calc".

Plotting of data points.

Linear fits of data points, with gradient, x intercept, y intercept
and RMS error calculation.

Manipulation of data points by functions.

Editing, modification,  deletion and display of data points.

Numerical integration of functions using simpsions rule.

Solution of equations by Newton Raphson method.

Tracing of plotted functions with cursor.

Option to add scales at user defined intervals to the graphs.

Info screen with details of graphs.

Solution of simultaneous equations for systems of up to 32 variables.



Use of Gplot



After installation the Graph icon will appear on the system screen,
below it will be listed any data files.  These files are held in the
\OPD\GRAPH directory (this will be created if it doesn't exist). 
Pressing Enter on any of these files will open it and start Gplot.

The active data file will be displayed in the status window on the
right of the screen, if you do not wish to use the file functions
then creation of a dummy file with no data points will safeguard
data.

Pressing help will bring up information on all functions, these may
be accessed by any of the following methods, pressing Menu, pressing
Psion+<key> where <key> is the hotkey listed to the right of the
entry in the Menu or just <key>.  Exit (Psion+X) is the only function
that cannot be accessed by a single keypress.

Details of the functions follow



FILE



New (Psion+N)

Creates then opens a new data file, closing the current open file



Open (Psion+O)

Closes the current then opens an existing data file



MATH



Plot Graph (Psion+G)

Allows a function to be plotted on one of the 3 avaliable windows. 
This is any function that can be evaluated in Calc, acceptable
variables are x,X,y,Y,q,Q these are all converted to q or Q for speed
of calculation.



Info (Psion+F)

This pops up a dialog with details of the ranges and functions of the
graphs.



Integrate (Psion+I)

This integrates a function (either from one of the graphs or
specified) using Simpsons rule



Newton-Raphson (Psion+W)

This solves equations using the Newton Raphson method, points either
side of the desired root should be specified, these can be determined
from the graph



Matrix Solution (Psion+Q)

This solves sets of simultaneous linear algebraic equations, the
coefficients are input in equation order, followed by the solutions
to the equations.  Up to 32 variables are supported, if anyone wants
to use greater than 32 variables then let me know and I'll recode it.
 Good luck to you too!



GRAPH



Trace (Psion+T)

This allows the function in a chosen window to be traced, keys while
tracing are as follows:

With CapsLock ON

	Arrow keys move the cursor around the screen, Control jumps the
cursor 5 pixels

With CapsLock OFF

	Left and Right move along the function

	Up and Down redraw the graph after having zoomed in/out
respectively. 

	Enter redraws with the cursor now as the screen centre.

	Space toggles the status window from left to right.



Ranges (Psion+R)

This allows you to set the ranges on the axis of the graphs



Scales (Psion+C)

This puts tick marks on the axis at specified intervals



Show (Psion+S)

Brings a chosen graph to the foreground



Hide (Psion+H)

Moves a graph to the background



N.B. <Tab> will move all open windows to the background to view
status window.



DATA



Plot (Psion+P)

Plots the data in the current open file



Linear Fit (Psion+L)

Fits a line of best fit to the data in the current file



Display (Psion+D)

Displays the data in the current open file



Modify (Psion+M)

Allows a function to act on X and Y values in the current file. 
There is  special case X=Y this transposes the two ranges.



Edit (Psion+E)

Allows addition, modification or deletion of points in the current
file.



SPECIAL



About (Psion+A)

Information about Gplot and registration.



Exit (Psion+X)

Close open files and exit Gplot.





Disclaimer



Although I have fully tested this program and see no reason why it
should cause problems I would still like to issue the following
disclaimer.  This program is used entirely at the users risk, and any
fault or loss of data caused by the use of this program will bet the 
responsibility of the user and no liability will be placed upon
M.Millar.



History



Version 0.82-0.83, added Escaping from graph plotting

V0.83-0.83.1, Fixed the jump to graph plot after linear fit.

V0.83.1-.2, Fixed the bug with -ve RMS means

V0.83.2-.3, Added x intercept display to Linear fit.

V0.83.3-.4, Fixed bug with plotting fitted graphs to windows other
than Full screen.  Speeded up graph plotting by reducing number of
significant figures to be parsed.

V0.83.4-.5, Added option to set X ranges before autoranging

V0.83.5-.6, Code refinements, commenting of code

V0.83.6-1.0, Made Gplot a type 2 APP, added trace, scales, zooming
functions, Simultanous equation support, further commenting and
algorythm improvements.  Shareware now.  Reorganised Menus to be more
Psion compliant.

