PSCORE
A Cricket Scoring Application for PSION's Series 3a, 3c, 3mx
and Siena computers
© B.G. Fowler 1997-2000
The author does not give, or imply, any warranties, or guarantees, regarding
the use of this software and will not be liable for any loss or damage
incurred thereby.

As a scorer, or a player, how many times have you had to sit there at the
end of an innings trying to make the batting and bowling details add up to
the running total? Have you ever had to copy out the details from the one
scorebook maintained during an innings to the other team's or to a league
result sheet, instead of socialising at the bar? What about your club's
scruffy looking scorebook, because people forget to bring the pencil and the
game was scored in biro, complete  with the inevitable crossing out and
overwriting?

Well, here is the answer. PSCORE is a fully functional cricket scoring
application for the PSION 3a, 3c, 3mx and Siena computers, which will remove
much of the drudgery involved in scoring a cricket match and dispense with
the discrepancies that sometimes result when a scorebook and pen have been
passed between a number of possibly reluctant members of the batting team.
It will also make it possible to have a computer printout of all your club's
matches in a standard format and could even be used by umpires who like to
keep a check on the overs and score and currently use pen and paper.

PSCORE has been designed with club cricketers in mind, but could  be used
for scoring at a higher level of cricket. It can be used for both limited
overs and time matches of either one or two innings, six or eight ball overs
and allows wide and no ball extra values to be varied. It will maintain a
scoreboard throughout the duration of a match and also produce files of each
innings for subsequent printing, containing the full match details as in a
standard cricket scorebook and  summary scorecards suitable for forwarding
to a league's secretary or the press. Whilst unregistered, each innings of
a match can only be scored separately, with the user having to exit PSCORE
and reenter it to start a new innings, but following registration the
complete match can be scored without the need for this.

The Scorebook file PSCORE produces includes each batsmen's time at the
wicket, balls faced and boundaries scored, for their full innings and also
for 50 and 100 runs. Bowler's averages are calculated and their wide and
no ball counts maintained. Fall of wickets, scoring rates for each 50 up to
300 runs and runs & wickets at the end of the first 69 overs are also recorded.
The only aspects of a manual scorebook that PSCORE does not reflect, is
the batsmen's scoring strokes and a ball by ball analysis of every over.
These are not feasible given the size of the screen and fonts available for
the printed page. The result of a match is automatically calculated at the
end of the last innings. The scorecard PSCORE produces contains the basic
batting and bowling details of the innings, fall of wickets and the
calculated result, together with a space for the two captains' signatures.

Examples of both print files are included in the .EXE file, showing the
South African innings of the tied World Cup semifinal.

PSCORE has been designed to make it's use replicate manual scoring as near
as possible, by taking as input what a scorer would enter in the ball by
ball analysis of a scorebook. The computer will prompt the scorer to provide
any additional information it requires and also cross check input to ensure
consistency.

PSCORE is available as a shareware product. As such, PSCOREnn.EXE may be
freely distributed, providing that no amendment is made to any of the files
it contains. If you continue to use PSCORE, you must register your copy.
Details of how to do this can be found in the accompanying file REGISTER.TXT.

Installation
The files that are included in PSCOREnn.EXE for this application are as
follows:
		\APP\PSCORE.OPA			(The application)
		\APP\PSCORE\MANUAL.TXT	 	(User-guide)
		\APP\PSCORE\PSCORE.HLP		(Online help file)
		\APP\PSCORE\PSCOREHP.OPO	(Run time help module)
		\APP\PSCORE\PSCOREPR.OPO	(Run time print module)
		\APP\PSCORE\PSCORE.TXT		(This introduction)
		\APP\PSCORE\REGISTER.TXT	(Registration information)
		\APP\PSCORE\SCORBOOK.TXT	(Example scorebook file)
		\APP\PSCORE\SCORCARD.TXT	(Example scorecard file)


To obtain PSCORE, download the .EXE file to a PC, run this file to extract
the compressed files and then move them to your PSION via WINLINK or any
other similar connection. They can be stored either in memory or on an SSD,
but the existing directory structure must be maintained, i.e. PSCORE.OPA in
directory \APP\ and the remaining files in directory \APP\PSCORE\. Once the
application files are on your PSION, the application can then be installed
on the system screen by using PSION+i. The size of the .EXE file is 71K
with the extracted application files requiring 110K storage (deletion of
the accompanying documentation will save 37K of this). To run the application
requires 25K memory plus 8K memory or SSD storage for each innings' print files.
Following installation, the two help files (PSCORE.HLP and PSCOREHP.OPO) may
be erased to save memory. PSCOREPR.OPO may also be erased if you are really
short, but you will be unable to write any files.


Thank-you for your interest in this application. If you have an opportunity,
please give it a try - any feedback, suggestions for improvements or future
developments, can be made to me, at the address in the registration
information.

For Siena owners
The smaller screen size of the Siena has meant that the amount of
information shown on the Batting and Bowling Details displays has had to be
reduced. On the Batting display, only the names, abbreviated how outs and
runs of each batsman, plus total extras, total runs and wickets are shown.
Fielder names are amendable by using the right arrow, even though they do
not appear on the display. On the Bowling display, only the names and overs
for each bowler are shown.

All other information can only be obtained by looking in the print files.
The data that is shown on the displays allows a scorer to input/amend details
and also answer the two most common questions asked - "How many did I get?"
and "How many overs has ..... bowled?"

Happy scoring!
