JBWhol is a Anglo-German co-production from John Boyce and Wolfgang
Schirmer.

JBWhol calculates for you the holidays which have a variable date like
Easter or Whitsun and writes a untimed date entry with a user
specified flag (default 'H') into your Agenda file.

JBWhol only works with the S3a !!!!!

Since the program was written by an Englishman and a German it covers
mainly the holidays of this two countries. But it may also be helpful
for other countries.

The program covers these holidays:

- English

     New Years Day; Ash Wednesday; Good Friday; Easter Sunday; Easter
     Monday; May Day; May Bank Holiday; Ascension Day; Whitsun Sunday;
     Whitsun Monday; Corpus Christi; August Bank Holiday; Christmas
     Day;  Boxing Day; Christmas Day Holiday; Boxing Day Holiday

- German

     Rosenmontag; Fasching; Aschermittwoch; Karfreitag; Ostersonntag;
     Ostermontag; Christi Himmelfahrt; Pfingstsonntag; Pfingstmontag;
     Fronleichnam; Buá und Bettag

To start the program just copy it into a \opo\ directory and start it
from the system screen. First you will be presented with an
initialisation dialog in which you are asked for the Agenda filename,
English or German Holidays, and the Agenda Year character code.

You don't have to close the Agenda file before using it - the program
does it for you and, if it was open at the start, it will be opened
when the program completes its work.

Next, the program will provide you with a list of the holidays which
can be selected using the Space Bar (a '*' will appear before the
holiday if it is selected). To de-select use the Space Bar (it is a
togggle). To move down the list use the cursor keys in the usual way
(including Home/End/PgDn/PgUp).

All the items can be marked using Psion-M or all may be deselected
using Psion-U. The individual year character can be changed by typing
the ASCII character while the cursor is on that entry. Once the
holidays have been selected press Enter. A Help page is available
within this holiday list by pressing the Help key. To return to the
list press the space bar.

Once you have left the holiday list you will then be asked for the
Start and End years. This refers to the range of years you required to
be written to the Agenda. Once this information has been entered -
press Enter - the program will write the selected holidays to your
Agenda file for the years specified.

We hope that you find the program useful. Let us know of any bugs
and/or suggestions. Other countries holidays can be included if you
sent either of the dates (and the method of working them out if they
are moveable).

John & Wolfgang

John Boyce 100014,1240 Wolfgang Schirmer 100022,1371


3/1/94  Problems with the English Bank holidays - May & August - now
        fixed.
10/1/94 Fixed the problem with New Years Day not being written to the
        Agenda (although it was displayed as being written on the
        screen.
        Added the Multiple choice option.