
                     DOCUMENTATION FOR LEDGER, VERSION 17
                                       
Introduction

   
   
   Ledger is a simple accounts program for the Psion based on a few
   simple principles. I have tried to keep everything fairly simple both
   from a user and a programming point of view. That means it should be
   easy for you to use and for me to maintain.
   
   Send me comments/feature requests at benc-ledger@dass.prestel.co.uk
   
Registration

   
   
   Ledger is shareware - you may use it for long enough to decide if you
   like it or not. When you have decided, you must either register it or
   stop using it. To not do so is illegal. A suggested trial period is
   about one month.
   
   To register, send a cheque, postal order or Girobank transfer slip for
   œ10 (ten pounds sterling) to:
   Ben Clifford,
   7 Broke Court,
   Guildford,
   GU4 7HQ,
   England.
   You will receive a registration key which will disable the annoying
   registration demands in your copy and enable additional features which
   do not work in the unregistered version. You must not reveal your
   registration key to anyone else.
   
Principles

   
   
   One of the principle differences between Ledger and other programs is
   that Ledger has no categories, only accounts. An account is somewhere
   where money comes from or goes to. Every transaction takes money from
   one account and puts it in another: when you buy some food, you take
   money from your WALLET account and transfer it to your FOOD account.
   When you are paid, you take money from your WAGES account and transfer
   it to your WALLET or BANK account. The total of the FOOD account is
   therefore how much you have spent on FOOD and the total of your WAGES
   account is how much you have been paid.
   
  CATEGORIES
  
   
   
   Accounts are placed into categories for the purpose of totalling.
   
   For example, you might place all bank accounts in the BANKING
   category, expenses in EXPENSE and income in INCOME.
   
  STYLES
  
   
   
   Each account has a style. This refers to the module which handles the
   account. Style modules add additional functionality to accounts
   without being built into the main application.
   
   Ledger comes supplied with several style modules, in the \APP\LED
   directory and you can add additional modules just by placing them in
   that directory.
   
Menus

  ACCOUNT MENU
  
    New Account
    
   
   
   This creates a new account. In order to use ledger, you'll need at
   least two accounts. At the first dialog, enter the name for the
   account. It is the filename used to store the account, so must follow
   filename rules (eg 8 letters max, no spaces). Accounts may be stored
   on any drive, but must be stored in the ledger directory (which will
   be used by default). After pressing enter, the Account Details dialog
   appears. Here, fill in:
     * Description - This is a textual description of the account, up to
       255 characters. You could, for example, put bank account numbers
       here or reminders of what the account is for.
     * Category - This is the totals category for the account.
     * Style - This allows you to choose the style module for the
       account.
       
    Jump to Account
    
   
   
   This brings up a dialog allowing you to choose an account to display
   in Ledger view.
   
    Account Information
    
   
   
   This allows you to edit the description, caetegory and style of the
   current account.
   
    Remove
    
   
   
   This removes the account from the accounts list. It does not delete
   the account file from the disc.
   
    Style Information
    
   
   
   This brings up information specific to the style of the account. In
   many styles, this does nothing, but, for example, in the SUBACCT
   style, it brings up a list of sub-account totals.
   
  TRANSACTION MENU
  
    New transaction
    
   
   
   This creates a transaction, transferring money between the current
   account and a chosen destination account.
   
   If the style of either account requires further information, it will
   ask for it when the transaction dialog box has been completed.
   
    Edit transaction
    
   
   
   This allows a previously entered transaction to be edited. Operation
   is much the same as New Transaction.
   
    Clear transaction
    
   
   
   This marks the highlighted transaction as cleared. This has meaning in
   BANK accounts and may do in others, dependent upon the style.
   
    Delete transaction
    
   
   
   This deletes a previously entered transaction, in both accounts.
   
    Jump to opposite accout
    
   
   
   This will take you to the account with the other end of the
   highlighted transaction
   
  SORT MENU
  
   
   
   These sort the transactions in the current account as detailed.
   
    Sort by clear status/date
    
   *
   
   This sorts primarily into two groups, cleared transactions and
   uncleared transactions. Within these groups, the transactions are
   sorted in date order.
   
    Sort by description
    
   
   
   These are sorted by the alphabetic content of the description field.
   This can be used if cheque numbers are entered in the description
   field to get an ordered list of cheques.
   
    Move uncleared to end
    
   
   
   This moves uncleared transactions to the end of the account with
   resorting the whole account. This is useful on flash disks where
   resorting the whole account is very wasteful.
   
  STANDING ORDERS MENU
  
    New Order
    
   
   
   This creates a new standing order. Information is input much as for
   the new transaction dialog. There are additional options to allow the
   frequency of the transaction to be set, monthly or weekly, and on
   which day to cause this to happen.
   
    Edit Order
    
   
   
   Edits a standing order.
   
    Process Orders
    
   
   
   This causes processing of pending orders to occur immediately. This
   will happen automatically at midnight. If you had the program closed
   at midnight, you might want to force processing to happen with this
   option.
   
    Delete Order
    
   
   
   Deletes a standing order. It does not delete transactions which have
   already been carried out, but no more will be added.
   
  SPECIAL MENU
  
    Integrity Check
    
   
   
   This will check all accounts for integrity. It will check that each
   transaction has an entry into both source and destination accounts. If
   an error is found, it will bring up an error dialog. The best thing to
   do in this case is delete the transaction and re-enter it.
   
    Update Totals
    
   
   
   This updates the totals on the account screen.
   
    Zoom In / Zoom Out
    
   
   
   Zooms in or out.
   
    Register
    
   
   
   Allows entry of registration details.
   
    Exit
    
   
   
   Exits.
   
Supplied Styles

   
   
   Ledger comes supplied with several account styles.
   
  NORMAL
  
   
   
   The Normal style has basic functionality. It provides a single total
   for the money in the account and is what should be used if no special
   functionality is needed.
   
  BANK
  
   
   
   This is designed for keeping track of your bank accounts.
   
   It provides three totals:
     * Actual - the total of all transactions involving this account.
     * Worst case - what the balance of your account would be if all
       expenses go through but no uncleared payments into the account do.
     * Cleared - what the bank says your balance is. If a transaction is
       marked as Cleared, it is added/subtracted to this total.
       
  SUBACCT - THE SUB-ACCOUNT STYLE
  
   
   
   This style allows you to maintain sub-accounts within one account.
   
   For example, this can be used for keeping track of money loaned to
   people. Normally, a seperate account for each person would be needed,
   which might result in a large number of accounts, with very few
   transactions. With Subacct, all your debts can be stored in one
   account, and a sub-account summary given for the accou nt, listing
   each sub-account and the total for that account.
   
   When you enter a transaction into a Subacct, you are prompted to
   choose a sub-account, or set up a new one.
   
   The sub-account totals are shown by choosing the Style Information
   option.
   
  INOUT
  
   
   
   Like Bank, this has several totals. They are:
     * Total - the usual total
     * Income - the total amount transferred into the account.
     * Expense - the total amount transferred out of the account.
       
   This may have use on credit cards, to show how much the card is used.
   If you have paid the whole bill, the total will be 0. The other totals
   allow you to see how much is flowing through the credit card.
   
   I don't use it myself, so I don't know what to do with it.
   
  BEVVY - THE BEVERAGE INFORMATION STYLE
  
   
   
   This was something I created rather lightheartedly. All the other bank
   programs for the Psion offer options such as petrol trackers. I don't
   have a car, so don't buy much petrol, however I am fond of ale, so I
   created a beverage tracker.
   
   When you transfer into a Bevvy-style account, you are prompted for the
   number of jars and the size of jar - 440ml (standard UK beer can
   size), 1 pint and half-pint (standard pub sizes).
   
   The total line gives the normal monetary total, the total volume of
   ale purchased and the average price per pint of beverage.
   
A Sample Setup

   
   
   These are the categories I have set up on my own Psion. This example
   is based on my personal usage of Ledger. Do not feel that you have to
   use the program in this way - your needs and desires will vary.
   
    Out
    
   
   
   Accounts in this category represent expenses, such as BEER, CLOTHES,
   HARDWARE and FOOD.
   
    In
    
   
   
   These accounts show all my income. I have WORK, INTEREST, ALLOWANCE
   and MISCIN.
   
    Bank
    
   
   
   Here I have accounts which represent money which I have, available to
   spend.
   
   My bank accounts are in this category, as well as my wallet account
   and a LOAN account, to track money which I have borrowed or am owned.
   
    External
    
   
   
   This contains just the treasury account, which is used to put in
   initial balances for the accounts. It is necessary because money
   cannot be created in the Ledger universe. The total of the Treasury
   account is pretty meaningless.
   
   I also enter transactions from an account into Treasury with a value
   of œ0.00 to make a comment about the account, such as "New Cheque Book
   ordered."
