FORMULA
=======
for: PSION System 3a/c

Author: (C) Peter von Walter; 26.5.99
email: vwalter@physi.uni-heidelberg.de
www: http://pi.physi.uni-heidelberg.de/~vwalter/my/homepage.html


What is "FORMULA"
-----------------
FORMULA is mainly a VERY powerful and flexible SYMBOL CALCULATOR:
That means you can not only calculate with numbers (like in the builtin calculator) but also with any
symbols (eg.'inch','10 N m/s2', '1h+30min', ...) which are defined in separate and standard data
files.

FORMULA is a general UNIT CONVERTER:
Any unit expression can be converted to any other combination of units. Derived symbols (or units)
like 'inch3' (cubic inch) are handled by the program itself, also any scaling factors like 'k'
(kilo=1000). You enter symbols like '10 cm2' (means: 10 square centimeters) and convert to any other
unit expression by typing the target unit expression (eg.'12 Joule/h=cal/s').

FORMULA shows DYNAMIC TABLES:
Simply arrange corresponding values in a table. If you change an entry value in the table (saved as
data record), all other table values will be recalculated accordingly (like tables of currencies).

FORMULA handles any COMPLEX EQUATIONS:
You enter any formula with all corresponding transformations into a data record and you will be able
to do all repetetive recalculations from now on very easily (eg. future investment calculation).

FORMULA draws PLOTS:
Enter any formula (or use from data record), define the range and get a x-y plot with automatic
scaling and labeling. 


Who needs FORMULA
-----------------
FORMULA converts, calculates, evaluates and plots ALL kind of units, formulas, equations and tables
and is therefore especially useful for all engineers, scientists and everyone who has to deal with
repetetive calculations.

The applications are unlimited. You change, adapt and extend the system to your needs and build up
your very personal formulary which grows with you!


Files
-----
You should have the following (after unzipping):

FORMULA.TXT              {introduction text file, you are reading it}
FORMULA.MAN              {manual text file}
FORMULA.TUT              {tutorial text file}

In folder \APP\:
FORMULA.OPA              {program}
SYS$VW00.OPO             {program library}
FORMULA.RSC              {help file, optional}

In folder \FORMULA\:
UNITS.DBF                {example units file}
TABLES.DBF               {example tables file}
EQUATION.DBF             {example equations file}

In folder \OPO\:
U2F-1.OPO                {Converter for UNIT records. Only for upgrading}.
E2F-1.OPO                {Converter for EQUATION records. Only for upgrading}


Installation
------------
Simply copy the folders \APP\ and \FORMULA\ to any drive!
Install (from the system) the application FORMULA.OPA!


How to start
------------
The best way to learn the program, is to use it, see how the examples in the database look like and
how they perform!

Install the online help file (FORMULA.RSC) and use the Help button in each dialog (or in the main
screen) to find out what they mean. Always use ESC to leave a dialog. (If you are familiar with all
the functions you can throw the help file away to save some kilobytes of your precious memory!)

Follow the short tutorial (FORMULA.TUT) to get a first impression of the capabilities of the program.

See the accompanying text file (FORMULA.MAN) for detailed informations.


Upgrading from V2 to V3
-----------------------
Users who have build up their own UNIT, EQUATION or TABLE records have to convert the database files
to be compatible with new unified format.

Actually these are only minor modifications: The order of the fields in UNITS has changed and the
special character ':' in EQUATIONS has been replaced by '=='.

Two little accompanying programs will do these conversions for you automatically:
U2F-1.OPO: Converts your old UNIT records to the new format.
E2F-1.OPO: Converts your old EQUATION records to the new format.

Always keep your old files as a backup until you are really sure everything works in the new file!


Registration
-------------
This program is SHAREWARE!

You have the possibility to test the program for a certain time (14 days) with certain limits in a
demo mode. If you consider the program useless, simply delete it. If you want to continue to use the
program, I ask you for a little contribution (see About..). I will send you a personal key
(preferable via email) which allows you to work with the program unlimited.

Please do the following:
-call "About" in the menu of the program
-open the registration dialog with "ENTER" (if in Demo-Mode) for all needed informations.
-send me the amount shown there (in DM or equivalent), directly as a bill throuh post mail (is
propably the cheapest and save enough!) or send it to my account.
-IMPORTANT: Send me also your name, under which you would like to register the program and the
"SerialNr" (number), which is given in the dialog.
-Enter in "Owner" your name (see above) and in "Key" your personal key (delivered by me) and your
program should immediately turn into a full working version.

The program can (should) be given away only as demo versions (without key).


Disclaimer
----------
THE AUTHOR SHALL NOT BE HELD LIABLE IN ANY WAY FOR ANY DAMAGE THAT MAY OCCUR TO YOU OR YOUR SYSTEM AS
A RESULT OF USING THIS PROGRAM OR OTHERWISE!

Each program can have errors (sorry)! Of course I will try to get rid of these in future versions.
Also I will try to improve and extend the functionality of the programs, as far as I can.
Registration is of course also valid for these future versions.

Please feel free to contact me if you found an obvious error (Sometimes its really a bug, not a
feature!) and to send me all your proposals for improvement.

Thank you for giving it a try!


Version History
---------------
1.0:
First public version.

1.1:
Program prompts with a banner from top-left to bottom-right for better visibility.
Error in reopen of list dialog fixed.
Some dialogs reworked for compatibility with Siena.

2.0:
Complete rework of UNITS and EQUATION. Graphics routines for plotting added.

2.1:
Datafile NEW implemented.

2.2:
Supporting new browser function in main screen.

2.3:
Added Next and Back functions to browse mode.

2.4:
Supporting calculator memories M0..M9.

2.5:
About Dialog more clear with two buttons ESC and ENTER.
General Error handling for EVAL.

3.0:
Overall rework and combining of UNITS and EQUATION into one program FORMULA.
User interface MUCH more PSION like!
Unifying of data files.



