                                IRLink
                            Version 1.3.2
                            (c)JBSoft 1997

                                 Ё
                                 цд©
                               юбады
                                юд©
                                дды

Description
-----------
This is a small program that allows the InfraRed system to be used
instead of a cable when connecting two Psion computers together - it
will only work when connecting Series 3c/3mx and/or Siena computers
together (the Series 5 does not allow this sort of connection). It
enables a File Manager running on one machine to see the files on the
other (assuming the File Manager can see remote drives - e.g. JBTree,
Purple Software's FileManager, RShell etc.). You can also open files
on one computer from the other and do all the things normally possible
on a remote drive.

Installation
------------
The program should be put anywhere from where an OPO program can be
run on your computer (normally an \OPO directory).

Operation
---------
When run the program normally gives four options...

     Ч 19200 baud connection
     Ч 57600 baud connection
     Ч 115200 baud connection
     Ч Configuration

Both computers to be connected should have the same baud rate selected
(Sienas would normally use 19200 although Psion have stated that, at
some point, they will allow 57600 connections).

The Configuration option allows

     Ч All Programs
     Ч Programs with files
     Ч No programs

     to be closed when running the IRLink program.

     Ч After starting the Link a file manager may optionally be
       started
     Ч Auto start at a specified speed

When run for a second time the Link will be terminated and any
programs that have been closed will be re-opened - do not close down
the Link in any other way otherwise your closed files will not re-open
automatically and temporary files will not be deleted.

If the Auto start option is selected then, to get to the Configuration
dialog you need to press Tab when starting up the program for the
first time (select the program, run it, as soon as you've pressed
Enter then press Tab). Once in the Configuration dialog you would need
to select the Auto run system again as it is automatically cancelled
when accessing this dialog. The second run of the program to close
down the Link will only do that - Tab will not work then.

That is all there is to it.
Contact
-------
John Boyce
CompuServe: 100014,1240
CIX: jboyce
Internet: john@jbsoft.cix.co.uk


                                           John Boyce 30 November 1998
