NEWICON  version 2.0
--------------------

NEWICON is an icon extraction and altering program for the
Psion Series 3a You can use it to extract the 48x48 black, 
grey and white icons from any .APP .GRP .ALS or .OPA that
contains an icon. Similarily you can also change the icon in
any of these files. 

It cannot be used to change a series3 24x24 icon into a series
3a 48x48 icon.


Whats New
---------

Version 1 only worked with straight forward file types
containing just 1 S3a icon and no other PIC's
This version can find the S3a Icon from files with multiple
PIC's.


Installation
------------

The program file NEWICON .opa should be copied to your \APP
directory. Then use Install ( PSION I) from the system APPS
menu.


Operation
---------
This program is all driven from 1 main menu. The available
options are:-

"Get icon from prog"

Use this to select the file that contains the icon you want to
copy. You then select a file name to give your icon. The icon
will by default be stored in the "M:\OPD\" directory and will
have a ".PIC" extention.
If a valid pic is found a message will be displayed at the top
right hand corner and the icon saved.
The saved icon can then be edited using my Icondraw program
for example.

NOTE only 48x48 black,white and grey icons are catered for. 

"Give prog a new icon"
This is the reverse of the above procedure. If a valid pic
location and type is found in the program your choice of pic
will replace it. The pic file you use should be the standard 
608 byte long icon pic file, any other type of pic file will
give incorrect results.

 NOTE again only 48x48 black,white and grey icons are catered
for. 

NOTE once you have given a file a new icon it will not be
visible until the application is removed and reinstalled using
the "System" "APPS" menu.

Registration
------------

NEWICON  is Shareware, if you wish to keep using it you must
register it. Registration entitles you to any updates and
removes the registration reminder.

To register send a cheque for £5.00 to:-
Jonathan Duff
7 Glenview Avenue
Holywood
County Down
N. Ireland
BT18 0PX

Please also write if you have any suggestions for improvements
or find any errors in the conversions.


Disclaimer
----------

Whilst every effort has been made to check the accuracy of
finding and changing icons within program files it is possible
that unforseen errors may occur. It must be understood that
the author accepts no responsibility for any loss of data or
program corruption following the use of this program. You are
strongly advised to backup any file whose icon you wish to
alter prior to the use of this program.


Editing Icons
-------------

ICONDRAW by myself is also available to allow the editing of
any icons obtained by the use of this program. ICONDRAW can
also be used to create entirely new icons which may be stored
in programs using NEWICON. 

A Shareware version of ICONDRAW is available on registration
of this program. A fully registered version is available for
œ10.00

