Psion Utils (c)1995 PROTRONICS USA 404-351-1055 CompuServe 71021,1544

FLASH! - Psion Series 3/3a users can now dial the phone via a modem or 
the speaker. Dialer turns your Psion into a lean mean dialin' machine.

This powerful utility that will save you precious time when looking
up numbers and dialing the phone. It works by searching all data files 
(unlimited) for a partial match and dials using the speaker or a modem,
without ever opening the database app. Profiles can be set up for home,
office, & travel with local, long distance, & calling card prefixes & 
suffixes. Local area codes are stripped automatically eliminating the
need to enter numbers twice for long distance vs. local calling.

Powerup

Powerup started as a simple routine that plays a .WVE file each time you 
turn on your Psion. The default sound is the tricorder from the original 
Star Trek. Some rather nifty features have been added ...

Powerup also records a quick message, bypassing security, if you hold down 
the <Esc> key when powering up. The Psion will beep and record a 5 second 
message to REC01.WVE, REC02, REC03, etc. You can press Space to end the 
recording early. The next time you turn on the Psion, your reminder will 
be played. Holding down Ctrl-<Esc> when powering up will go to the Powerup 
screen after you enter your password. Here you can record, play, & erase 
recordings quickly by pressing 1, 2, 3, etc. This is perfect for quick 
messages in the car, in the dark, in bed, or when you are pressed for time.

FLASH! - With a slight mod, you can now make recordings and turn off alarms 
with your Psion closed or still in its case. Simply cut .5 cm off the top of
a standard paper clip and tape it just above your screen (when your Psion
closes, it should be above the spacebar). Load Powerup and close case (with
Psion still on). Give the case a slight squeeze (with thumb below speaker &
fingers in bottom ridge on case). Your Psion should begin recording.
You can also test this in Word by inserting spaces. Each time you squeeze
your Psion while the alarm is sounding gives you an extra 5 minutes of
snooze time. If you have trouble getting this to work, use thicker tape or,
if you prefer, for an extra $5 (+ registration), we will send you a 
self-adhesive rubber strip that looks good above your screen. 

Hold down the System button with the Psion off and the Psion will turn on 
in Stealth mode (silently). You can still make recordings, but you will not
hear the start and end beeps (great for meetings). Hold it down again with
Psion off and Sound turns back on. Powerup must be running in background.
If you still want alarms but wish to disable the Tricorder sound, turn the
Sound back on from the System screen (Psion-S). Press S to adjust default #
of seconds to record. Powerup also comes with a companion OPL called HOURLY 
which beeps on the hour (except from 1am to 7am) even if your Psion is off. 

Powerup & Hourly will NOT drain your batteries and do NOT slow down your 
processor while running in background; playing long WAV files will. Use 
rechargeables. Memory is 8KB. Enjoy! 

Other utilities include Timekeeper which includes a full screen 
clock/calendar, a non-agenda alarm system, and a stopwatch/billing timer
that automatically posts billing results to your spreadsheet. Keyboard
allows you to use a full-size keyboard to type on your Psion.

Watchdog is a home security program that monitors your home for intruders
and ambient noises. When a sound is detected a Wave file is played (dog's
bark, police siren, "I've got a gun", etc). Watchdog can also be used
to monitor a baby's room and play a lullaby or a mother's voice when
crying is heard. The sound threshold and wave file played can be
adjusted and the next version will be able to call a macro, page you
and replay to sound (requires 3FAX), or launch an application. Also
has great potential for playing pratical jokes on friends & loved ones.

We are working on a simple speech recognition app for speed dialing
and a text to speech util that will give the Psion 3a a spoken agenda, 
document reader, more personality, and other capabilities.

Send us a $25 registration fee, and you will receive all of the above 
products via e-mail over the Internet (uuencoded) or CompuServe (zipped).

International users may register via CompuServe (GO SWREG  ID#: 2371)
Registered users get free utility updates for the life of the product
Protronics USA 499 Northside Circle, Suite 420, Atlanta GA 30309-2112
Psion Utils (c)1995 PROTRONICS USA 404-351-1055 CompuServe 71021,1544
