EXPENSES MANAGER V1.0 (SIENA Only)
----------------------------------------------------

Following the success of my Personal Accounts program for the Psion 
S3A & S3C, S3ABANK, a number of people  suggested I issue some 
of the optional modules as standalone programs.  S3A EXPENSES 
was the fifth of these modules (the others are the Investment Tracker, 
S3AINVx.ZIP, the Financial Planner, S3APLANx.ZIP, the Fuel 
Consumption monitor S3AFUELx.ZIP and the Home Inventory, 
S3AHOMEx.ZIP, where 'x' is the version number).  This program 
allows you to keep track of your Expense Account, accepting expenses 
by category, and automatically calculated vehicle journeys.   I have 
now rewritten it to run on the Psion SIENA, as SNA EXPENSES.

To Install the program, do the following:

1. 	Put SNAEXP0.APP into any \APP\ directory .
2. 	If you have a Company Vehicle and would like to use the optional 
vehicle monitor put the SNACAR0.OVL module into an 
\APP\SNAEXP\ directory.
3.   If you want to use the optional On-Line Help (Highly 
recommended) put the file SNAEXPH.OVL into the 
\APP\SNAEXP\ directory.
4.    If you want to use the optional Print option put the file 
SNAEXPP.OVL into the \APP\SNAEXP\ directory and the file 
SNAPRINT.DYL into an \OPD\ directory  (Note that this latter 
file is common to all my programs, so if you have more than one 
of them you only need one copy of this file).
5. 	Install as usual, using <PSION-I>.

Now go into the program, ideally using <PSION-N> to name the file 
for the first trip, although the default name EXPENSES is used if you 
just press <ENTER>. The 'nag' screens can be removed by registering 
the program, which will also allow you the full 200 entries/trip.  The 
unregistered version allows you just ten entries, to see the capabilities 
of the program, and a limited number of categories. 

You will then be asked for a title for the trip, the overall expense 
allowance for the trip, either per-diem or total (leave this at zero if it is 
not applicable), the vehicle rate (for example, 25c/mile would go in as 
0.25, although again, leave at zero if it is not applicable) and the 
symbol for the Currency in use.  If you are never going to use multiple 
currencies this can also be left blank.  If you have loaded the optional 
Vehicle Monitor module, you will also be asked if you wish to add a 
monitor page to this trip, and if you say 'yes' you will be asked for the 
Vehicle name and number and whether you wish the program to start 
up in the Expenses screen or the Vehicle Monitor screen.

Working through the MENU commands will show you the capabilities 
of the program, but to get the best out of it, I suggest you go through 
the following mini-tutorial.  

First thing to do is add a few Categories using <PSION-M>.  I suggest 
Food, and Car Park  as a start, and you will need to think of a 2-3 
letter 'short' code as well.  Now put in some dummy entries, either 
from the Menu, the 'hot key' <PSION-E>, or just by pressing 
<ENTER>.  I suggest you put in one Car Park bill, ensuring it is a 
'Spend' and the category is 'Car Park', and two Food Bills with the 
category set to 'Food'.  Now enter a vehicle journey, again either from 
the Menu or the 'hot key', <PSION-J>.  You will see that the cost is 
evaluated automatically, depending on the Vehicle Rate you entered at 
the start.  Finally, enter another Food Bill, but set it as a refund, to 
demonstrate money received back from the Company.   Although the 
Psion S3A had enough screen space to display the category in full, this 
is not true of the SIENA, so only the 3-letter code is shown or, in the 
case of a journey, the distance covered.  To see the full details of an 
entry just select the entry and press <PSION-I> or <I>.   Note that the 
Category column is not available if the Info Window is selected 'On'.  
Use <Fn-Menu> to switch the window.

Note that the lower window will display the total expense allowance (if 
applicable) and also the amount of spend to-date, to allow for 
comparison.  The bottom line is normally used to display the trip title 
and the total distance covered but, as will now be demonstrated, is 
used to show any ‘filters’ that are set.

Now, from the Category menu, select 'Category Filter' or <PSION-C> 
and select 'Food', leaving the Date Filter OFF.  Pressing <Enter> now 
gives you a display of only those entries associated with that filter.  
Now select the filter again and reset it to 'None'.  Note that selecting 
the filter to 'Distance' will show just vehicle journeys.  The additional 
Date filter can be used if, for example,  you wish to see Food bought in 
just January.

How you subsequently treat the program when you have submitted the 
claim is up to you.  However, I have provided 3 suggested methods:

1.   Start a new file for your next trip, using the Menu, or <PSION-N>.

2.   Draw a line under the final entry, using the Menu, <PSION-L> or 
just <L>.

3.   Reconcile those entries that have been claimed, using the Menu, 
<PSION-R>,<R>, or just the <Space Bar>.  This is the method I 
recommend.

For the purposes of the demonstration, reconcile the three food entries.

If we now assume that the claim has been paid, we need to remove the 
entries, so press <PSION-A> to archive them.  Note from the dialog 
that you actually have various options available, but for now use the 
'Archive Reconciled Entries' option.  Because this is the first time the 
option has been used, you will be prompted for a file name for the 
Archive.  
This will not occur in subsequent uses of this option.  Now, you will be 
asked to select which Archive to use, although at the moment you only 
have a choice of one, and whether to Append or Overwrite.  Again, 
this is a personal decision.  Some people are happy to run just one 
Archive file, some people prefer a file for each type of claim.  Some 
like to just keep the last set of records, some like to add the new ones 
onto the old ones. For the demo, leave it at Append, and press 
<Enter>.

We can now look at the Archive file using the Menu or just <PSION-
SHIFT-A> or the diamond key.  This simply displays the information 
with a header giving details of when the entries originated (and the 
currency, if that was selected). Note that under the 'Special' Menu, you 
still have the Category Filter option, and that full Search facilities are 
available under the 'Search' Menu (But only if the Filter is turned 
'off').  If you do run multiple Archive files, then the 'File' menu gives 
you the appropriate options you will need.

Now return to the main screen, either from the Menu, <PSION-
SHIFT-E>, the Diamond key, or just <Esc>.  Note that in this main 
screen entries can be updated or deleted by using the options in the 
'Edit' menu, or <TAB> or <Delete> and that <PSION-P> will print 
out the entries.

If you have more than one Trip or more than one Archive, there are 
various switching methods. In the case of Trips, use <PSION-O> to 
open an existing trip.  In the Archive, use <PSION-S> to switch 
between archives.  In both screens, the L/R arrows will also cycle 
through trips/archives.

If you specified a currency symbol during the initial setup of a trip, you 
will be able to use the 'Currencies' option under the 'Special' menu to 
specify a second currency.  Simply enter the label and the rate relative 
to the original currency.  For example, if your main currency is 
English Pounds and you add US$ then the rate figure should be about 
1.5.  If that is the wrong way around for you just select 'Inverse Rate' 
as your method and put the inverse in.  Now, whenever you input an 
entry, you will have the option of using the secondary currency, and 
the figure will be automatically converted to the main trip currency.

Now, select 'Set Preferences' from the Menu or <PSION-Q>.  This 
allows the following:

	Default Entries.

If you find you are entering the same details on a regular basis, you 
can set it up as a Default Entry .  Select the option, and then the 'New 
Entry' option.  Note that this menu also allows you to subsequently 
update or delete the entry.  Now fill in the details, giving it a 
recognisable name.  This entry can now be recalled by using the menu, 
or by using <PSION-G> instead of <PSION-E> or, most easily, by 
using Shift-Enter.  After selecting the entry, the default values are 
filled in for you.  If you want to set up a default journey, simply select 
the 'New Journey' option from the original menu instead.

	Default Archive File

If you use multiple archive files, the program will default to displaying 
the last used file.  Using this selection you can change that so it always 
defaults to the same file, or asks you which one you want, every time.

	Step on Reconcile.

If you are reconciling a number of entries it is often useful to 
automatically step the cursor to the next entry after reconciling an 
entry.  This option will allow that to happen automatically.

	Printer Configuration

This is a repeat of the option available from the Main screen and 
allows you to specify the Printer type (Parallel, Serial, File)  (Provided 
the optional Print Module is installed)

	Toggle Total/Balance

By default, the total column shows the overall spend.  Use this option 
if you would rather it displayed the amount of your allowance 
remaining.

	Toggle Total Sign.

Having used the program myself, I could not decide whether I wanted 
the Total column to be negative or positive.  Simple solution was to 
make it configurable for either one.

	Date Format

As various different date formats are used throughout the world, I have 
allowed for various options.  If I've missed one, let me know.

	Decimal Places

This allows configuration of the number of decimal places to display.

	Currency Separator

This allows you to specify the separator to be used in numbers greater 
than 1000

	Font

Use this to specify Swiss or Roman font

	Preference Repeat

If you would prefer to stay in the 'Set Preferences' menu while setting 
up the program, rather than having to reselect it, use this option.

Other Menu options allow you to toggle between large and small fonts 
for each screen, see the full information for an entry, and to open up a 
word processor memopad, similar to that implemented in the Agenda, 
to keep text records. Personally I use it to record trip times for the 
subsequent claims.

There is also a  'Backup' and 'Restore' options under the 'Trip' Menu.  
This simply makes a 'mirror' copy of your data somewhere else on the 
disc, to restore if something goes adrift with the original data.

Note that the per-diem allowance is worked out by multiplying the 
number of days between the first and last dates in the entries by the 
per-diem figure.  This works for my system where an overnight stop 
'triggers' a day's allowance.  If anyone does it differently, please let me 
know.

OPTIONAL VEHICLE MONITOR

Although the main screen can cope with occasional use of your own 
car at the Company's expenses, a number of people pointed out that it 
did not really help if you had a Company vehicle and you needed to 
keep track of ALL of the mileage covered.  This, then is the purpose of 
the Vehicle Monitor screen.  You enter every journey undertaken, with 
start and end values for the odometer, and you can allocate each trip to 
a category.  There are 2 built-in categories, for Business and Personal, 
but you can add additional specific Business categories if you so wish.   
I think it's use is fairly self-explanatory, as it uses the same principles 
as the main program.   However, as a tutorial, try this:

1.  Create a new trip and say 'Yes' to the Vehicle Monitor.

2.  Enter the Name and Number of the vehicle and specify whether you 
want Expenses or the Vehicle screen to be the primary screen.

There are 3 built-in Categories called 'Business', 'Personal' and 
'Unallocated'.  However, you have the option of adding extra 
categories, again with a 3-letter code, although these will all be treated 
as 'Business' for the purpose of display calculations.  

3.  Enter a couple of new categories - Client names for example.

4.  Now press <ENTER> to start the log.

5. 	Enter all the details, with a description and using one of the 
categories.
	
6. 	Now enter a few more, using the 'Personal' and 'Unallocated' 
categories as well.  Note that the 'Odometer Start' figure defaults 
to the previous 'Odometer Finish' figure, as it assumes you have to 
account for ALL the use of the vehicle.

You should now see how the module will work, with the distance 
totals permanently displayed at the bottom, and by using the filter, you 
can see how various distances are charged against different Categories.  
As with the main screen, press <PSION-I> or <I> for full details on 
an entry.   You will see the built-in categories display as (B), (C) and 
(U), to differentiate them from the added ones.

I should point out that I see this not as a standalone function, but an 
add-on to a trip file.  Normal expenses, Hotel, Food etc are still 
entered in the main screen, while you simultaneously keep track of the 
vehicle in the secondary screen. I do, however, see a linkage that 
might be needed to 'feed through' the journey entered in the Vehicle 
screen, to the main screen.  I will work on that once some 'real' users 
have had a chance to comment and put it in V1.1.

If you find the program useful and wish to register it, please see the 
file REGISTER.TXT  for up-to-date instructions on how to register.  
Apart from giving you a 'warm' feeling, allowing you 200 entries/trip, 
and getting rid of the 'nag' screens, registering will give you access to 
full support and notification (only by E-Mail I'm afraid) of regular, 
free, updates.   If anyone has any useful suggestions for improvements, I 
will always try and include them in the next version.

If you want to contact me, use the addresses in REGISTER.TXT, or I 
am always available on Compuserve 100023,543 or E-Mail on 
alanrichey@msn.com

Also, I now have a WWW Home Page at  
http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/alanrichey   I will always 
have news of the program, any bugs found, any enhancements 
planned, and the latest BETA test version for downloading, so please 
pay a visit.

Cheers

Al Richey
