PSION WP DATA FILE



 	Q.     T.     C.	Manual   	


	A selection of mathematical programs by Sven Weber
	For the Psion 3a/3c/3mx      		

	QTC:  a selection of pure mathematical programs for the Psion series 3a/3c/3mx.   




NB:  	This version is shareware. It is only available for 30 days after initial loading
and does not include any printing options.  Any mention of this option in this document
refers to the full version only, which is available from the address at the end.





To load and run: 

(QTC is designed to run from internal loading only.)  
(NB: QTC will not load into the original series 3 machines: a version is available - minus 
Grapheq - for S3, from the address given at the end.)	   

Welcome to QTC! If your version is on a floppy disc or flash card (SSD), please follow the 
instructions below to load the programs into your Psion.  	

There are four files associated with QTC on your disc: QTCS.opa (the menu file), \QTCS\ 
(the directory containing the individual programs), QTC3.pic (the icon) and QTCman.wrd (this 
document). Each of these files needs to be put into a certain place on the Psion.  1) From a 
floppy disc using a PC via Winlink. Use Winlink to select \APP\ directory from Psion (M:\). 
Copy both QTCS.opa and \QTCS\ from drive A(PC) into this directory, then copy the QTC3.pic 
file to the internal \pic\ directory. Copy QTCman.wrd to \wrd\.  

Installation: first put your highlight on the application immediately to the right of where 
you want the QTC icon to come up on the system screen, then bring up Install on the applications 
menu. Select the top line in the window and with the horizontal arrow keys find QTCS.opa. Check 
that the selection gives "current position" and "internal disc" and press Enter. The QTC icon 
will now appear. Highlight the label below it and press enter - and you're in business.   

2. Loading direct from an SSD: place SSD in either A or B locations, press tab and then the 
appropriate arrow key to find your disc. Copy files to \app\ and \pic\ as above and then install. 
Or use copy disc command.  

3. QTC can be run on a PC under DOS using the Psion emulator S3aEMUL (freeware). The loading 
conditions are effectively the same as above but Winlink is unnecessary if loading from a floppy 
disc.  Either open S3aEMUL (NOT in windows!!), press tab and use horizontal arrow keys to find 
drive A (where the floppy disc should be). Highlight the files or directories that need copying, 
press F9 and copy and proceed with those files as in 1(a) above.  Or in DOS/Windows File Manager/
Explorer, create (if they are not there already) both \app\ and \pic\ directories, copy the files 
into these directories, exit Windows and bring up S3aEMUL. Select where you want the icon, press 
F9 and navigate to the applications menu, bring down Install and proceed as above in 1a).  

It is possible that having loaded QTC and got the icon up, all the individual program names will 
appear under the icon - where they may look pretty but have no loading function. Press tab, guide 
highlight to the \app\QTCS\ heading, press menu or F9 and highlight 'File Attributes', then using 
arrow keys, put Yes to 'Read only' and 'Hidden". Enter.  NB: Make certain that your Psion is set 
to Radian measure!  (Control menu: Evaluate). 

The complete selection takes up about 150K of memory. Qtcman (this document) is available under 
Word. 

                  		---------------------------- 


I hope you find these programs interesting:  May I ask you to take a quick glance at the 
description of them below before you get started.  You'll see that they are not meant for 
professional mathematicians, nothing high flown like that, but are meant rather for those 
in bud  whose study takes them across the subject concerned and who want a simple way of 
getting an answer to a particular problem. Also for  anyone who is sufficiently misguided 
in their interests to have mathematics as a hobby - as I have myself - and who can contain 
his cynicism enough to find in these programs some diversion or amusement, although none of 
them is designed as a game. Not even one.  

Now, there are plenty (and I mean plenty) of very good maths programs, and with any luck it's 
possible to find soft-ware that does everything except washing the dishes: this selection in 
QTC, unfortunately, can't lay claim to these dizzy heights nor even pretend to (see above). 
But the programs in QTC will do quickly and accurately what they are designed for and  
hopefully, also, they will stand the strain of applications outside the strict limit of their 
titles.  Most of the programs are self-explanatory, but at risk of being both patronising and 
boring, I'm going to write a short description of each. A word, first, in general.  Nearly 
every program can be printed out, not as completely as on the screen, but enough to give all 
the significant results: you will be asked whether or not you want this done after accessing 
the program. The print-out, or even having the parallel link plugged in does, unfortunately, 
often slow the routines down somewhat, thus it probably would be an advantage to run the 
program first to see what it does, and print it only when you have got the results you are 
looking for. The print-out is limited to parallel printers: they should be set up normally 
via the Psion menus and you should check that the printers themselves use the character set 
corresponding to the IBM code page 850.  Due to the limitations of this set, certain things 
cannot be printed either on the screen or on a separate printer. This should not cause too 
much bother but to prevent any mystery and rumblings about cabalistic signs, I should mention 
that powers 4 and 5 are sometimes denoted by little hooks, rather than by **4 or **5. Of 
course, if a character set other than the IBM page 850 is used, there is no telling what 
you'll get...  

The programs progress either by use of the space-bar [Sp/b] or entering a letter in response 
to a question, or entering a number in response to "Enter". In the last case, the entry must 
be confirmed by the enter key except where the entry is by default. With the exception of 
Bisect and Grapheq (see later), number entries will only accept numbers in decimal or 
exponential form: brackets, fractions, pi or other things, will cause a ? to appear, inviting 
re-entry. Entry defaults or re-calls that occur in some programs are set just by using the 
Escape key: all other key presses either bypass the default or have no effect.  All circular 
measure is in radians and all unaltered logs are in base e. I have tried to make the programs 
fool-proof but over- (or under-) loading may cause some programs to complain: the ball is in 
your court then, altho' it's easy enough to reload if an error signal appears. Incidentally, 
some of the programs can be combined, ie: Remaneq and Quintec, Simuleq and Quinteq, No81 and 
Primsolv. A choice will be given in the main program.  

Now the programs individually:   

1.	Bisect:	  Virtually any single-variable equation with a single root can be solved by 
the bisection method as it tracks over the zero, though equations that have two or more roots, 
either close together or coincident, can cause trouble. Hopefully that won't happen too often. 
The big  disadvantage of the process is that it is rather slow: there are quicker methods 
(sometimes much quicker) but they all need a starting point that is a close approximation to 
the root that you want to find. The bisection method does not. This program will find any real 
root included in the range x < Abs(100). The length of time it takes to get to the final 
bisection depends on the length of the eqn., but is generally about 12 - 15secs.  The equation 
[f(x)=0] that you will enter can be almost as complicated as you like (limited to 100 
characters): using any of the in-built psion functioms (sin, cos, tan, ln, log, exp, abs, * for 
ALL multiplication, ** for powers). Writing the equation in the standard way making good use of 
brackets, you can build up some pretty fearful equations. Number entry can be decimal or 
exponential; pi, brackets and fractions can be used.  

Three things, though: a) the variable is x and only x, b) with any appearance of x, it is 
essential that it is enclosed directly in brackets [ie (x)], and, finally, c) the '= 0' 
does not need to be written in: it is always implied.   Any = sign or other mistake in 
entering the equation, will confuse the program; it won't give an error flag (or, at least, 
it shouldn't do), but it may give some ridiculous answer or just sulk and go back eventually 
to an edit command. The program does not like discontinuous functions [eg (ax^2)*exp(b/x)] 
although the edit/evaluate part will work quite happily.  After running your equation through, 
you will be given a choice of editing it (and evaluating for a given x) for a further run.    
Incidentally, it will sometimes give roots which one doesn't expect, but these are still 
correct (ie: tan(x)-1 gives 5pi/4 whereas one might expect only pi/4.), and on some occasions 
it takes a dislike to a zero root and goes skipping out to the edge of the limit. Not to worry 
about this: it will be obvious from your equation that a zero root was in the offing. If it 
can't find a root it will tell you to reconsider the equation. Don't go looking for complex 
roots because you won't find any here!  

2.	Comarith:	  Simple complex number arithmetic: moduli and arguments, addition, 
subtraction, multiplication, division, inverses, powers and roots in either Cartesian 
coordinates (like x,y), or in polar or exponential systems. Values of argument lie between 
-pi and +pi ccw.  Finding the integral roots of any complex number, say, the fifth roots of 
(3+4i)/(1-8i), can be done in a couple of seconds, and the multiple roots of 1 or -1 are 
found immediately when the required entries have been made, &c.  To remove any misunderstanding, 
the arithmetic functions A/S/M/D mean simply add/ subtract/ multiply/ divide, and in the root 
program, the root n must be a positive whole number, although in the power program any 
fractional root can be found, but, of course, only one will be shown. 

3.	Diagonal:	  Builds Pythagorean number sets from 2 to 4 dimensions. Of course, 
you know that with a 4 dimensional box with unity sides, the longest diagonal is exactly 2. 
It really is. You can't say that about a 3 dim unity side box: that's 3^.5; nor about 2 dim: 
these are irrational and thus, in effect, cannot be measured exactly...  In this program, r 
is the diagonal, x the side you start with, and y, z and w the other sides depending on 
dimension. These sides have to be related between themselves quite apart from the normal 
Pythagorean formula [ie: x^2+y^2(+z^2+w^2)=r^2]. In two dimensions this is quite simple: 
y=r-n, n being any whole number difference between the diagonal and the third side, giving 
r=(x^2+n^2)/2n.   

With increasing dimensions, things get somewhat more complex: for 3 dimensions, y=r-n, z=r-m, 
but a further condition is necessary between y and z involving an independent integral 
'variable' u: [m=(u^2+x^2)/2n], and for 4 dimensions, y=r-n, z=r-m, w=r-(m+q), with the 
independent 'variable', u, bound up in [m={(n-q)^2+u^2+2x^2}/4n]. So, obviously, the 3 & 4 
dim. versions will have two solutions.  Now, the x side in the final result may well be 
scaled up or down ("Sc.F") depending on various factors. I leave you to work these out for 
yourself.	

Keep entered numbers under 100 (75 in dim4) if you want a reasonable running time and don't 
want the calculating machinery to over-stretch itself. There is an error checking mechanism 
in the program which will show "ic" if the final solution does not check with itself.  

4.	Expeq:	  Solution of certain types of simple exponential equations. Nothing too 
difficult. Will find logs to any positive base, logs of negative and complex numbers (did 
you know that ln(-1)  = ipi so that e^ipi = -1? Or that there must be n+1 roots of an n 
degree polynomial when it crosses a simple exponential curve?). You can check these things, 
and quite a bit more. Bye the bye, -pi<<=pi for complex answers.  There are four main types:   

	Aa^f(x)=g(x);    
	Aa^f(x)=Bb^g(x);    
	y^z=a+ib;    
	Aa^2x+Ba^x+C=0.   

The first will find real roots within a chosen range of up to abs(x)<20, the others all roots, 
real and complex, within the range of the computer. (e is default - esc button.)  

5.	Fhyp:	  All hyperbolic functions, both direct and inverse, with this program, with 
abs(x)<227.  

6.	Grapheq:  A simple two-dimensional graph program that copes with most ordinary one-to-
one, right conic, parametric, Z-plane and polar functions. A bit on the slow side but it gives 
you an idea of what the function looks like. The one-to-one function range is as in Bisect, the 
conic section will draw all simple ellipses and hyperbolae (with axes parallel to graph axes: 
no xy terms - use a matrix transformation to get out of skew axes); the parametric, Z-plane 
and polar sections will draw any appropriate typed-in functions also a number of in-built 
graphs, all of which can be adjusted through change of coefficients, axes, scale, range, 
radius and definition.  

There are two sets of scales: the basic in-built one of the Psion derived from the origin at 
the bottom left hand corner of the screen [the top right hand corner is (480,160)], and the 
graph scale coming from the effective origin wherever this is put. It can even, if needs be, 
be off the screen. Default origin is (240,80) and the default graph scale divisions are set 
at unity (all divisions are 20 Psion points).  Definition is based on the number of points 
taken per complete graph and can be varied from 200 to 1000 in units of 200. Of course, the 
lower the definition, the quicker the graph gets drawn, but some low definition graphs look 
pretty coarse and crude. 200 has been chosen as the minimum: it gives a fair graph and doesn't 
take too long. With graphs that go off the screen and start again on the opposite side [ie 
hyperbolae or sec(x) &c], the plotting sequence will sometimes draw unnecessary lines crossing 
the screen to get to the next starting position. One of these days I shall get round to removing 
this bug, and also the one in the conics section where the plot on medium definition can make a 
small brick where f'(x) is infinite. Now, to repeat the warning given in Bisect, do make certain 
that on EVERY appearance of the variables in the functions you enter, they are directly enclosed 
in brackets, also that (a) * is used for each and every multiplication, (b) all brackets 
correspond and (c) the = sign is never used. Failure to carry out these instructions will muck 
the graph up no end (if, indeed, you get a graph!).     

7.	Lazyquin:  A simple way into Quinteq, without any of the hassle of on-screen explantions. 
Just enter the coefficients (max degree first) and let it do the rest.  

8.	Modn:    A little program that does simple modular arithmetic and finds congruences on 
any base n either with direct entry (integers, fractions or powers) or with the sum/product of 
two entries (+ve or -ve).  For making Cayley tables from Zn - or just playing about with number 
bases or perhaps seeing what some remainder is after a division.  Everything this program does 
can easily be done in your head (or at least up to n=12(!)) but maybe not quite so quickly...  

9.	Number 81:	  Some of the hidden features of this number, a very ordinary number 
until you start investigating it. Quoting Lewis Carrol, `curiouser and curiouser'.  

10.	Primsolv:	  A program for extracting prime factors from medium sized whole numbers 
up to 1E14 and HCF's (or GCD's) from up to five numbers (integral, naturally). 	  

11.	Quinteq:	  The heart of this selection. Now, as you know, solving polynomial 
equations above degree two is not the easiest of tasks and the method generally employed uses 
some kind of iteration. However, up to degree four, they can be solved algebraically (anything 
above generally cannot be), and any odd degree equation with real coefficients must have at 
least one real root, which can easily be found by one of the many simple iterative processes. 
These two factors enable a quintic to be solved easily with a computer (very messy and awkward 
by hand, though!) and this program carries these processes out quickly and accurately, finding 
all possible roots, real and complex - from a quadratic to a quintic - normally well within a 
couple of seconds: quicker than finding them all by iteration with a similar speed processor.  
Looked at the other way round, the pattern of coefficients, particularly with a quartic and 
quintic, can be rather curious - with certain types of root. Not saying any more except that 
if you've ever looked at some Galois theory, you would know why:  good hunting!  

12.	Remaneq:    This program started as an adjunct to Quinteq but has since developed 
further: by numerical methods it will find all the real roots of any polynomial up to degree 
9 within a chosen range of up to x<abs(50), then divide through the original equation by these 
roots to give a new equation which may be more manageable. For instance, if a 9th degree 
equation has 5 real roots, the final equation  would be reduced to degree 4 and this can, 
at your choice, then be solved by Quinteq.   It will not find complex roots, except through 
transfer of any resultant equation (degree <= 5) to Quinteq, which means that if, say, you 
had an 8th degree equation with only two real roots, the final equation would be of degree 6 
with 6 complex roots which would have to be solved in some other way. 

Under some circumstances, if roots are too close, it is possible that one might be skipped, 
but this - with any luck - should be recalled by solving the divided out equation. Of course, 
any odd degree equation must have at least 1 real root, and all other roots must go in pairs 
(real or complex), hence if you had an 8th degree equation and only 3 roots came up, there 
would have to be another root lurking about somewhere, which could be got at by widening the 
search field or by solving the resultant 5th degree equation with Quinteq. Both of these 
alternatives are easy to carry out. There is, as indicated above, a choice of transfering 
data across to Quinteq, which means that all those equations that can be reduced to degree 5 
or under can be completely solved.  

The escape button acts as a default when entering coefficients: when starting up, the default 
is 0, but on any re-run the default is the last entered value for that coefficient. This makes 
it a good deal easier to change individual coefficients to see how the equation behaves. 
Incidentally, there is a figure for a remainder at the end of the new equation: this shows 
the remainder after having divided through by all possible real roots and if it is less than 
1E-13, is shown as zero.  If there is a sizeable remainder, it generally comes from a root 
very close to the search field boundaries and can often be reduced by making the limit somewhat 
bigger.  There is a demonstration run through with Remaneq: type T on the title page and see 
what you get.  

13.  Simuleq:	  Linear simultaneous equations can be a bore and it's only too easy to make 
mistakes when working with several dimensions. This program won't - it takes all the hassle 
out of these and it will tell you straight away (well, almost) whether the equation system 
can be solved and, if it can, will do it quickly in up to five dimensions, giving in addition 
the partially (Gaussian) reduced triangular matrix, the value of the determinant and the 
characteristic equations for determining eigenvalues and vectors up to dim4 (As the letter 
lambda does not appear in the character set, k is used for this purpose:  det[A - kI] = 0 ). 
These eqns can be solved by Quinteq if you choose.  

If the equations cannot be solved uniquely, the program will give (up to dim4 and with a 
maximum nullity of 1) the general solution. Any fractions that appear in this process will 
not be divided out (to avoid unnecessary decimals).   This program will normally interchange 
rows by itself: sometimes it will ask you to do so, especially when first entering coefficients. 
If it does, it will be in specific ways, but there can be certain row combinations in dim5 where 
the results can be confusing. If this happens, don't take no for an answer, examine the matrix 
which should give you some clue as to how to re-arrange rows to the best advantage.   

Incidentally, if you feel like checking the value of the determinant yourself, the way the 
part-Gaussian matrix is computed makes this calculation easy: start with the bottom right hand 
term of the matrix, multiply it by the term immediately to its left on the next upper row. Do 
the same for every row until you end up at top left corner of the matrix, applying to each 
term an exponent decreasing by one for each row upwards,  (ie: e55 x d44^0 x c33^-1 x b22^-2 x 
a11^-3 for dim5). So you can see whether your arithmetic is as good as the Psion's! Which, 
except for dim5, does it in a different way.  

There are some symmetrical arrangements of coefficients in various dimensions that could form 
the basis of a puzzle. Say, if the elements are entered in dim5 as follows (a is any number):    
		 1  2  3  4  5  a   (or a)	
		-1  2  3  4  5  a+1 ( a-1)	 
		 1 -2  3  4  5  a+2 ( a-2)	 
		 1  2 -3  4  5  a+3 ( a-3)
		 1  2  3 -4  5  a+4 ( a-4) 	then in the first case x1=x2=x3=x4=-.5 and 
x5= (a+5)/5, or more to the point, a=5(x5)-5, and the second x1=x2=x3=x4=.5 and x5=(a-5)/5, 
or a=5(x5)+5. Something similar happens when entering a complete set of 1's and -1's in the 
same kind of pattern, and also with either set in lower dimensions. But the number set given 
above seems to be the most perplexing to people not in the know. If the alternate sums command 
were used after having entered these coefficients, there would be no indication to them as to 
how this puzzle could be solved.  

An example of  Simuleq's use:  	A quick way of solving polynomial finite difference sets (with 
max order 5 or (E^5)f(0)=0, ie: a 4th degree equation), without having to use the Binomial 
expansion.  Let input be f(a), f(b), f(c),....  (preferably in descending order numerically), 
check that the nth difference (n<=5) is zero, and set extended matrix to:  	
	{a^n	a^n-1	a^n-2	....     a^0   : f(a) }
	{b^n	b^n-1	b^n-2	....     b^0   : f(b) }
	{c^n	c^n-1	c^n-2	....     c^0   : f(c) }
	{d^n	d^n-1	..... and so on.  
The results, x1 to x(1+n) will be the coefficients of the required equation  of degree n 
(matrix size n+1).  	ie: Given f(0)=-10, f(1)=9, f(2)=70, f(3)=239, f[4)=654, f(5)=1525,  
f(6)=3134, the 5th difference is zero so we shall be looking for a 4th degree equation (5 
coefficients).  Set matrix to (this is one of several possibilities - there is a surfeit of 
data!):
  	{256	64	16	4	1	: 654 }
	{ 81	27	9	3	1	: 239 }
	{ 16	8	4	2	1	:  70 }
	{  1	1	1	1	1	:   9 }
	{  0	0	0	0	1	:  -10}  
and this will give x1=3, x2=-7, x3=21, x4=2  and x5=-10 which means:  3x^4-7x^3+21x^2+2x-10  
which is the equation the given data fits to.   

14.	Zetafunc:	  An intriguing function, the off-spring of a generalised harmonic 
sequence (1+1/2^z+1/3^z+1/4^z+...), which many years ago was found to have a curious relation 
both to pi and to prime numbers, particularly when its analytic continuation was worked out 
for complex degrees. For values of Re(z)>1, it can easily be summed by adding each term in 
the sequence (ie: by brute force!), but this summing can on occasion take a long time with 
low exponents (with Re(z)=1.5, it would take many thousands of years to get up to 10 d.p!). 
However, with this present program, after a predetermined number of terms have been straight-
forwardly summed, the so-called Euler-Maclaurin method is used to make an estimate of the rest, 
by integrating it trapezoidally and using error correcting functions with Bernoulli numbers 
(up to B12). It is remarkably quick and accurate. For instance, the sum with z=2, needs only 
10 terms of the basic series to get the sum to within 1 part in 10^-14 (in fact, it's generally 
not necessary to have more than 25 terms with any value of z: the total error is of the order 
of the next B term which is easy to estimate crudely), whereas with straight summing, 7000 terms 
give only 4 d.p....  At higher degrees (around Re(z)=14), the two ways are more or less equally 
efficient, but at still higher degrees, it is not worth using the E.M method. 

The series also has a finite sum for degrees with Re(z)<1: another very intriguing result which 
you wouldn't expect by looking at the basic sequence. It doesn't seem at first glance to be 
possible, but if you were to examine the functional equation, it shows that for every finite 
degree except abs(z)=1, the sum is finite in value. Just shows how wrong one can be about this 
odd function! This program will quickly work out sums with degree values -1<Re(z)<200. The link 
to pi shows well in a graph (log/lin) of the ratio of pi^abs[Z(z)] to abs[z], giving an 
apparently smooth line for real values (asymptotic to 2logN for higher values of Re(z)) and 
a smooth surface for values on the complex plane. There are many even values of Re(z) that 
give an exact integer for this ratio, the first ones being worked out and proved by Leonhardt 
Euler - who also proved that the sequence was identical to a product series involving only 
reciprocals of primes.  

Riemann's hypothesis about this function has to do with roots (zeros) of Z(z), that is, 
abs[Z(z)]=0. Now when Re(z)>1 it can be shown (and it is quite obvious) that Z(z) cannot have 
a root; Re(z)=1 (the ordinary harmonic series), forms a simple pole, ie: Z(z)=inf, but when 
Re(z)<1 in the analytic continuation, there are roots every Re(z) = -2N (with Im(z)=0), and 
also, pace the conjecture, when Re(z) is, and only is, 1/2, there are various values of Im(z) 
(and their conjugates) that make abs[Z(z)]=0. In fact, it can be proved that there is an 
infinity of roots along this so-called critical line but not, unfortunately, that there are 
no roots elsewhere. This conjecture that all roots (except the 'trivial roots' along the 
negative real axis) that are less than Re(z)=1 are on this critical line, is one of the most 
important and famous hypotheses in all number theory, and no-one knows how Riemann arrived at 
it. Many other theories depend on its veracity. Mathematicians are still waiting for a water-
tight proof for it: all that has been done is to show that with half a billion starting points, 
not even one has negated the conjecture. But possibly the next one could prove it wrong....  
The first roots of this type are z = 1/2+14.134725141734..i, 1/2+21.0220396387..i &c.   

Now, the present program can be used for the solution of such roots using the regula falsi 
method (the program is valid for Re(z)>-1). In fact, as far as I am aware, this is still the 
only way of getting at them accurately. The program will not sum any lower degrees than 
Re(z)=-1, as these are out of the unit circle z=1 on the split complex plane. But it is 
fairly certain that any roots for negative degrees that are outside this unit circle are 
only going to be the trivial ones (see above), so it is hardly worthwhile extending the 
program for this. Now go ahead and see what you can find...  



DO PLEASE READ THIS:      These programs in QTC are copyright to the author and are neither 
share nor free-ware. You are welcome to make personal back-up copies but to copy it for 
someone else, even if no money changes hands, is illegal and ain't what you might call honest.  
These programs should be accurate (unless otherwise indicated) to at least 10 or 12 digits, 
but no responsibility can be taken for any result arrived at by any program in QTC., nor on 
any use of these results, howsoever caused: this condition and also a condition that no attempt 
is made to reverse engineer any of the programs in QTC in any way whatever must be accepted by 
any purchaser and subsequent user.  In particular, no warranties are given for any specific 
set-up although copies of QTC which prove defective on purchase will be changed gladly. I would 
appreciate any constructive comments and suggestions as to how to improve these programs or 
ideas for new ones.  Enjoy yourself. There may be further additions when I get the time.	

Sven F. Weber  E-mail: Sven@Appletreedrive.idps.co.uk     or
Snail mail: 28 Appletree Drive, Hala, Lancaster, LA1 4QY 
[QTCdocsfile QTC2QTC:1.XII.97; recast QTCman 4.01.99 and 4.11.99] 	 

