               Glider 1.0 for the Psion Series 3 Computer
                           by Clarence K. Din

              BASED ON THE MACINTOSH GAME OF THE SAME NAME!

DISTRIBUTION NOTICE: You may give this game to anyone with a Psion S3,
provided that you include this notice with the game and tell that person
that you encourage him or her to send me the shareware fee (hint hint).

INSTALLATION INSTRUCTIONS: Simple.  There are three files: glider.txt
(this file), glider.opa, which goes in the \APP directory and glider.pic,
which goes in the \OPD directory.  At the main System screen, press the
MENU button and enter the Apps menu.  Select Install Application and
call up Glider as the file name (it's in the \APP directory).  Press
ENTER and Glider should be installed and on the main System screen with
its own glider icon.  Select the Glider icon and press ENTER to run.

OBJECT: Maneuver your glider through room after room full of obstacles.

YOU: You are, quite simply, a paper airplane with one "life."  Your main
purpose in life is to survive as long as possible.  You can die in many,
many ways: impalement by spike, diving into a floating or fixed object,
or crashing helplessly on the ground.

THEM: There are 4 types of objects which act as obstacles in your path to
freedom: puff vents, spikes, fans, and helicopters.

There are two puff vents in two locations on the screen.  These vents
will help your glider rise.  Quickly moving your glider left and right
over the vents will increase your height as high as the ceiling.  Seldom
can you crash into a puff vent, but if you do, you die.

Spikes protrude from the ground or ceiling in stalagmite or stalagtite
formation (sort of).  Crashing into a spike will cause sudden death.

Fans are located on the rightmost part of the screen.  Their purpose is
to blow your glider away from your goal of flying out of the room.  A
combination of puff vent and fan may cause you to twirl helplessly in the
air (a neat effect).  You can get out of this predicament by quickly
moving your glider left or right.  Hitting a fan will kill you.

Helicopters are located in random areas on the screen, mostly on the
leftmost portion of the room.  Their main goal is to obstruct your path
to success.  Hitting one is fatal.

CONTROLS: You have two basic controls: zip forward (right arrow key) and
zip backward (left arrow key).  You can fly very quickly forward by
pressing the right arrow key many times in rapid succession.  Not pressing
any keys causes your glider to coast forward, but don't hit the ground!

At any time, you can press ESC to quit the game.

HOW YOU CAN CRASH: What you really have to look out for is the very tip of
your glider.  So long as you can get the tip of the glider between the
narrow gaps made by some of the obstacles, you'll be well on your way to
freedom.  Also, when you zip backward, keep an eye out for the front portion
of your glider and keep it away from all obstacles.

INCREASINGLY DIFFICULT LEVELS

The first, and perhaps second, rooms are ridiculously easy.  You basically
have a room with two puff vents and two spikes.  These easy levels will
teach you how to control your glider.  Your score is determined by how
quickly you can traverse through a room.  An internal timer begins at 100
ticks and quickly counts down to 0.  When you reach the rightmost side of
a room, a victory beep sequence will play and the time left on the internal
timer will be added to your score.  When you crash, the screen will say so
and ask if you wish to glide again.

As you score more points, more obstacles will enter your path.  After 50
points are scored, a fan will appear.  After 150 points, a helicopter will
appear.  After 300 points, a third spike will appear, this time from the
ceiling.  After 500 points, the spikes get a little longer.  Surviving after
500 points is a matter of luck and skill, so keep on gliding!

FOR FIRST-TIME PILOTS

First-time gliders will invariable crash due to the uniqueness of the
glider's flight properties.  Don't despair!  You'll get the hang of it!
Just keep practicing!

On fan levels, sometimes the rightmost spike is unnervingly close to the
fan.  You get past the spike, but then the fan blows you towards the
spike!  Don't despair!  Remember that you basically have to concern
yourself only with the front part of the glider.

Sometimes a fan is blocking so much of the rightmost middle portion of the
screen that the only way you can get past it is by flying under it.  We'll
let you figure this one out!  It's easy once you get the hang of it!

FOR THE IMPATIENT - HOW TO CHEAT

You can get through a suprising number of levels by simply pressing the
right arrow key rapidly throughout the game.  My personal best with this
method is 568 points, but the fun of flight was removed.  Take heed!  You
will eventually crash even with this "cheat."

THIS PROGRAM IS SHAREWARE!
If you like it, please send $10 to Clarence Din, 2215 Arch Street # 405,
Philadelphia, PA 19103.  I'll send you back a printed copy of the source
code and keep you informed of any new revisions.
