TimeVoc-1 
Version 1.0
Night Speaking Clock for the Psion 3A
Distributiion : Online


Introduction:
Thank you for trying Timevoc-1.
Timevoc-1 is a shareware speaking clock for the Psion series 3A.
It will allow you to know the time if you wake up in the dark,
without the inconvenience or disturbance caused by switching on
lights. You simply reach for your Psion. Its easy to find the
"On" key. Press it once to switch the Psion on, and again to
have it gently speak out the time. "Oh - Four - Two -Seven" lets
you know it is twenty-seven minutes past four. Once the Psion
has spoken the time, it automatically switches off. To return to
normal operation, switch the Psion on and press Psion-x to exit
the application.


Installing Timevoc-1
The following files are required

Timevoc1.opa            The main application file
*.wve (* = 0 to 9)      The number-sound files

Copy Timevoc1.opa to the APP directory on any of the Psion
drives (Internal, A or B)

On any drive create a \TMV directory (Use Psion-+ from the
system screen with the cursor at the CALC application) and copy
the *.wve files to it.

Use Psion-I from the system screen to install the application.


Getting started:

Note: The unregistered version of Timevoc-1 will not work
between 0400hrs and 0500hrs.

Move to the Timevoc Icon in the system screen and press Enter.
You will be asked to provide an initial volume setting. We
suggest you use the default setting for the moment so just press
Enter. Continue to press Enter until you get to the main
Timevoc-1 screen. The clock shows the current time. Press ESC
and you will hear the Psion speak out this time. The Psion will
then switch itself off. Switch the psion back on and press ESC
again. Once again the Psion speaks out the time and switches
off. Switch on the Psion once again, now key Psion-x to exit the
application. You can now see how the program will work and how
it is suited for use in the dark.

Codladh Samh (pronounced "cullock sawve" is Irish for "sleep
well")


Use as night time speaking clock:
Before you go to bed, activate the application by moving to the
Timevoc icon in the system screen and pressing "Enter". Continue
until you get to the main screen. Now switch off the machine in
the normal fashion. If, during the night you wish to know the
time, reach for the Psion, find the ESC key, press it twice, and
listen to the time. No further action is required as the machine
automatically switches off at this point. In the morning, switch
on the Psion and press Psion-x to exit the application.


Registration:
You may register via Compuserve. The SWREG ID is 9665.
The cost is 15 US Dollars.

Run the application. If you have a registration code you may key
it in at this stage. Simply press Psion-k and fill in your name
and code, followed by "Enter". If you do not have the code, the
program will still work, however the time will not sound between
4am and 5am. Registration will allow for proper working at any
time. To register send 10 pounds (UK or Irish) or 15 US Dollars
or equivalent to :

David Joyce,
2 Seabury Parade
Malahide
Co Dublin
Ireland.

You will be sent your registration code by return post, or, if
you prefer, by email.


Menu:
Pressing the "Menu" key will allow you to access features. Some
of these features can be activated via a single keystroke.


Operations

Changing Volume:
This is activated by keying "c"
You can choose from between three volume settings - Loud,
Moderate and Quiet. The setting which is in use is shown at the
bottom of the main screen.

Exit
Access key "Psion-x"
Exists the application

How to register
Access key - "Psion-h"
Gives details on how to register

Key registration code
Access key - "Psion-k"
Allows you to key in registration code

Changing sound files from one disk to another:
When you start up Timevoc it searches the Psion disks for file
1.wve. The search order is Internal, A and B. So if you have the
sound files on Internal, say, and want to switch them to A, copy
the files as normal to A, delete them from the internal disk,
exit the Timevoc application and then restart it. Timevoc will
find the file on A and use this as the disk for the sound files.


Using your own voice
It is quite simple to have the application use your own voice to
speak out the time. The application uses the sound files 0 to
9.wve in the \TMV directory. You can use the RECORD application
to record ten files using your own voice to say "Oh", "1", ...
"9". Record Oh to 0.wve, 1 to 1.wve etc. Keep the recordings as
short as possible to conserve memory. Set the recording length
to 0.5 seconds and speak immediately after pressing space. These
recordings will be in the \WVE directory and should now be
copied to the \TMV directory, overwriting the recordings which
are already there. When you have done this, delete the relevant
files from the \WVE directory.


Trouble-shooting
Time is not spoken:
Use Psion-S from the system screen and check that sounds are on.
Batteries may be too low for audio
Very little memory is available (< 2k). Free up some memory.

Be Fair
If you use Timevoc-1, please register it.

Uninstalling Timevoc-1
To uninstall the application completely, move the cursor to
Timevoc in the system screen. Key "Psion-/". Now delete the 0 to
9 wve files from the \TMV directory on whatever drive you copied
them to initially. Remove the file tmv.cfg from directory \TMV
on the internal disk. Then remove the TMV directories from the
internal disk and from the disk where you copied the wve files.
Finally remove the "timevoc1.opa" file from the \APP directory.


Disclaimer:
Timevoc-1 is a shareware application. The author cannot be held
responsible for any damage which might result from its use.



Copyright:
Timevoc-1 is copyright 1995 of David J Joyce, 2 Seabury Parade,
Malahide, Co Dublin, Republic of Ireland.



Contact:
Post:   At the address shown above under copyright.
Email: djoyce@cix.compulink.co.uk
	101520.1250@compuserve.com
	101520,1250 on Compuserve



