March 9, 1999

Pelican Software Inc
Notepad Deluxe Update 1.01 (R3)
http://www.npdeluxe.com
support@pelicansoft.com
--------------------------------

This new version of PUpdater 1.01 fixes some problems with the first release. You
can safely remove PUpdater from the Add/Remove control panel after the update
is done.


Version 1.01 (Rev 3) is a free update for all Notepad users. It contains
many bug fixes, and even some new features. Read the Word Welcome file for
details on all of the changes.


INSTALLATION:

PUpdater.sis installs an application called PUpdater to your Psion or
Geofox-One computer. PUpdater shows up on the Extras bar as any other
program.

Once installed, start PUpdater to update your copy of Notepad to Version 1.01 (R3).
The Updater application knows which version you are running, so it will not apply
the update unless this is needed. The current PUpdater can update R1 and R2 versions
of Notepad to R3.



FILES NEEDED:

PUpdater.sis installs only three files to your handheld computer.

	1. PUpdate.app
	2. PUpdate.aif
	3. Notepad.dat

These files all reside in the \system\apps\PUpdate folder, although you should never
need to manually locate these files since PUpdate shows up on the Extras bar. The 
Notepad.dat file contains the data needed to update Notepad. This file is large and
can be deleted after the update is complete. The easiest way to get rid of the Dat 
file and the PUpdater application is to remove it using the Add/Remove control panel.



PROBLEMS:

If the process of updating fails for some reason, make sure that you do the following:

	1. Make sure you're not low on system memory. PUpdate doesn't need a lot of memory to
	   run, but it does need at least 150k of system memory.
	2. Make sure you have at least 200k of disk space free on the drive where Notepad 
	   resides.
	3. If the update fails, and the updater can no longer find a valid copy of Notepad,
	   you will need to reinstall Notepad first, and then apply the update again. To
	   assure this will work cleanly, first uninstall Notepad from the Add/Remove
	   control panel, and then reinstall it from the Notepad.sis file.


