New features in ShopList 1.11

This version adds AutoList, a feature which automatically adds
regularly-purchased items to the shopping list.

The Find function has also been upgraded so that items containing
the search string embedded in the middle of a word are excluded.

To upgrade to version 1.11, it is only necessary to copy the new
files to \APP and \APP\SLIST. Note that there is an additional
file, SLISTUPG.OPO, which automatically upgrades the .LST files
to the new format. It is strongly recommended that you make a 
backup of your list files before first opening/upgrading them 
using the new version. If you have already registered, it is not
necessary to re-enter the registration code.


New features in ShopList 1.10

This version adds handling of cash discounts per item. A couple of
minor points have been clarified in the Help file.

To upgrade to version 1.10, it is only necessary to copy the new files
to \APP and \APP\SLIST. If you have already registered it is not 
necessary to re-enter the registration code.


New features in ShopList 1.09

This version adds handling of Multibuy discounts. You can now buy 
N items for the price of M, or specify a cash discount when purchasing
N items. The price per item is automatically calculated on the basis of
the specified discount, held internally as a floating point number, but
is rounded for display purposes to the nearest penny.

To upgrade to version 1.09, it is only necessary to copy the new files
to \APP and \APP\SLIST. If you have already registered it is not 
necessary to re-enter the registration code.


New features in ShopList 1.08 

This version introduces five new features over the original release. 

The first relates to "once-only" and "each trip" purchases. You can now
define categories as containing "repeat purchases", "once-only
purchases" or "each-trip purchases". "Repeat purchase" categories
operate as before, with items in "Pick" being updated at "checkout". In
contrast, items in "once-only" categories are erased from both "Pick"
and "Tally" at "checkout". This allows the shopping list to include
items like books and videos which you will only buy/rent/borrow once.
Suppose that you have a "once-only" category called "Videos". You might
put in "Pick" all the videos which you might be interested in
buying/renting at some point in the future, transfer one or two to
"List/Shop" when you wanted to rent them, and following "checkout" these
would be expunged from the list altogether. Items in "each-trip"
categories are added back onto the shopping list on "checkout" ready for
the next shopping trip, thereby ensuring that you don't forget to buy
them. For example, you might define a category called "Staples"
containing such items as bread, milk and other perishables which you buy
every week. These would always stay on the shopping list. Items can
readily be moved to and from this category by using the "Update item"
command (Psion-U). 

The second is to allow a default store and aisle to be defined for each
category. For example, you might buy almost all meat products in aisle 1
of your local supermarket, so you would want any new items added to the
"Meat" category to automatically default to that store and aisle.
However, you can override these defaults for any particular item if
desired when it is originally added or purchased. This feature is also
useful for "once-only" categories, whose items would otherwise never
have an aisle. 

The third is to provide an alternative means of changing categories or
stores, via a dialog box opened by pressing <Tab>. 

The fourth new feature allows items in the current category or store to
be rapidly selected by pressing the first letter of the item name. 

The fifth is an automatic check of file structure when a list file is
opened. This is implemented as an optional module (SLISTCHK.OPO), which
can be omitted to save space if desired. 

These changes are backwards-compatible with existing .LST files, all of
whose categories will initially be set up for "repeat purchases" and
contain a null default aisle. However, the default store for existing
categories will default to the first store which you defined, so on
upgrading to version 1.08 you should update the properties of each
category in turn using "Modify" (Psion-M). 

Apart from than these changes, the other alterations to the program
since its original release relate to the fixing of minor bugs, as
detailed in the History.txt file.
