                            OPPDBG
                  The Psion 3a OPL Debugger
                         version 1.1

INTRODUCTION
------------

OPPDBG is a run-time OPL source level debugger for the Psion 3a/3c
and Siena computers. It may be used when developing applications
on the Psion in the OPL language.

Ordinarily when debugging OPL applications it is necessary
to add PRINT statements within the source code to find out
what code is being executed and the values of variables.
This can be a time consuming and error prone process since
it often requires the code to be retranslated many times in
order to pinpoint where a problem is occurring.

With OPPDBG debugging OPL applications is much more
straightforward, you can see exactly which lines of code are
being executed, and the values of all local variables
without the need for print statements or retranslating the
code multiple times. You simply write you application using
standard OPL, translate the code once under debug and then
use the debugger to track down what exactly is happening
within the running application.

OPP
---

A pre-requisite of OPPDBG is a separate utility called OPP.
OPP is available separately, so if you do not already have a
copy you will need to obtain OPP version 1.4F and install it
before using OPPDBG.

 !!!OPPDBG will not work without OPP or with versions of OPP
                      prior to 1.4F!!!

OPP builds on top of the standard OPL translator providing
additional commands and directives when you write OPL code.
The main facilities OPP provides are:

- Preprocessor facilities (#define, #include,...)
- Support for multi-dimensional arrays
- C style structures
- C style comments, i.e. /* a comment */
- C style operators such as i%++
- Hooks for OPPDBG to allow the debugging of a program

Using OPP it is possible to create a debug version of an OPL
program. This debug version will work exactly like the
normal application but includes additional hooks which the
debugger uses to interrogate which lines of code are being
executed and the values of variables.

INSTALLATION
------------

A typical installation of OPPDBG would consist of the
following files in the given directories:

        \APP\OPPDBG.OPA
        \APP\OPPDBG\OPPDBG.TTL
        \APP\OPPDBG\OPPDBG.HLP
        \OPP\INCLUDE\OPPDBG.OPH

It does not matter whether the files are installed on the
internal drive, or an SSD in drive A or B provided that all
the files are installed on the same drive.

Copy the above files onto the Psion in the given
directories. Next go to the Psion system screen and install
the main application (OPPDBG.OPA). This may be done by
selecting the "Apps->Install" menu option on the system
screen.

The OPPDBG.TTL and OPPDBG.HLP files are optional and provide
a startup title screen and on-line help. Start by installing
these, you can later remove them if you are short of space.

The file OPPDBG.OPH is used with OPP and should be installed
into the standard OPP system include file directory.

REGISTRATION
------------

OPPDBG is bundled with OPP in the OPP SDK. The OPP SDK is
shareware, which means that if you continue to use it you
should register with the author. Registering the SDK gives
you access to both OPP and OPPDBG.

Refer to the the manual supplied with OPP for instructions on
how to register the OPP SDK.

USING OPP TO TRANSLATE WITH DEBUG
---------------------------------

The first step in debugging an OPL program is to create a
debug version of the program. OPPDBG will not work unless at
least some part of the program has been translated with
debug enabled.

First ensure that the system include file OPPDBG.OPH which
is supplied has been installed into \OPP\INCLUDE.
Next add the following line so that it is the very first
line in the source code for the program you want to debug:

        #pragma debug

The above command is a standard OPP directive which tells
OPP to translate the program with debug enabled. The
resultant program will include some additional hooks which
allows the debugger to track what line of the program is
being executed.

The following line should also be added as the very last
line in the same source file:

        #include <OPPDBG>

This line instructs OPP to include the source from the
installed OPPDBG.OPH file. This contains a small section of
code which is used within the translated program to
communicate with the debugger.

The following shows an example of what is required, which
you can use to test the debugger:

        #pragma debug
        PROC main:
                local i%, s$(10)
                s$="Hello"
                while i%<3
                        i%++
                        print s$,i%
                endwh
                print test1$:
                get
        ENDP
        PROC test1$:
                local t$(10)
                t$="OK"
                return t$
        ENDP
        #include <OPPDBG>

Now translate the program using OPP as instructed within the
OPP manual. The program will be translated as normal. Note
the following line should be displayed to indicate that
the program has been translated with debug turned on:

                 Translating with debug

STARTING TO DEBUG A PROGRAM
---------------------------

Before running the debug version of the program make sure
that you are not editing the source for the program in the
OPP editor or with any other application. If you are editing
the source file the debugger will not be able to access the
file and so will not be able to display each source line
which is being executed. In this case it will function as
normal but will simply display the source line numbers for
the program. For this reason it is best not to run the
program to be debugged from the OPP editor directly, instead
exit from OPP and run it from the RunOpl icon.

Once you have a debug version of the program start it up
using the normal mechanism. If the program is an OPO file
then it may be started from the RunOpl icon, if it is an OPA
file then it may be installed and run as a normal
application.

When the program starts it will automatically start up the
debugger. If it fails for any reason check that you have
installed all the files correctly and have enough memory to
start both the program and the debugger. As a rough guide
you need at least 40K of free memory to start the debugger
plus whatever memory your program requires.

After a short pause the debugger should open the source file
and display the first line of source.
                              
The current active source line will be highlighted by a grey
line. There is also a cursor which is indicated by a black
square, which initially will be at the start of the current
active line. You can move the cursor around the source file
which is displayed using cursor keys , Pg Up, Pg Dn, Home,
End, Psion-up and Psion-down. If required you can also view
the contents of another file by selecting the "File->Open"
menu option. The editor for the debugger is different from
the Psion Word or Program editors in that it does not load
the entire file into memory. This means that very large
files can be viewed within the debugger, unlike with the
Psion Word editor which is limited to files smaller than
40K.

The "find text" and "find again" menu options may be used to
find a given string within the current source file. The
search is case independent and will start from the line
after the line on which the cursor is positioned.
The "jump to line" command may be used to jump to a given
line number. The "jump to current" will jump to the current
active line.

The "preferences" option controls the size of the tab
stops within the debugger, and the display of optional
line numbers and breakpoints.

The "zoom in" and "zoom out" options allow you to alter the
font used by the debugger.

When the debugger first starts the program being debugged will
start in a suspended state at the line indicated by the grey
line.

If you switch to the program screen you see that it is
blank, this is because the program has not had a chance to
do anything yet. Note that it is useful if you assign a
button to both the debugger and the program being debugged
using the Psion system screen "Apps->Assign button" menu,
e.g. CTRL-sheet for the debugger and CTRL-calc for the
RunOpl icon. This then makes switching between the debugger
and program screens much easier.

VIEWING LINES AS THEY EXECUTE
-----------------------------

Step into
---------

To see exactly what lines are being executed you can step
through each line as it executes. The main command to do
this is the "step into" command. The "step into" command
allows the program to execute the current line of source
and then pauses, waiting for the next command from the
debugger. The current active line is indicated by the
grey horizontal bar. The active line will not be executed
until you request it. There are a three ways of accessing
the "step into" command, (or any command within the
debugger):

- Select the menu option, "Run->Step into".
- Press the keyboard shortcut for the menu option, Psion-s.
- Simply press the "s" key.

All of the menu options may be accessed directly using a
single key press.

Step over
---------

The "step over" command is a variant of the "step into"
command. The difference occurs when the current active line
contains one or more procedure calls. In this case "step
into" will step into the procedures and start displaying the
lines from the procedures as they execute. The "step over"
command will execute all the procedures called from the
current line completely and then pause on the next line in
the current procedure.

Run
---

The "run" command allows the program to run without
displaying each line as it executes. When this command is
used the debugger will automatically switch to the
background in order that you can see any output from the
program. You can manually switch screens if required. The
program may be interrupted by pressing the Esc key with
the debugger screen active. The program will also halt if
it reaches a breakpoint (see later).

Step to cursor
--------------

The "step to cursor" command is similar to the "run"
command in that it allows the program to execute a number
of lines. When the program reaches the line the cursor is
on (the small black square, not the grey line) it will
stop and wait for the next command. If the line the
cursor is on is never reached then the program will not
stop unless the Esc key is pressed. So for example, if
the cursor is on an ENDIF line and the inside of the IF
section is not executed then the program will not halt.

EXITING THE DEBUGGER
--------------------

The "exit" command may be used to exit the debugger. Note that
if the program being debugged is still running it will be
killed.

BREAKPOINTS
-----------
                              
Breakpoints allow you to run a program until it reaches a
specified line of source code. You can specify a number of
breakpoints and then set the program running using the "run"
command, as soon as one of the breakpoints is reached the
program will pause and the debugger will refresh to display
the active source file and line.

To set a breakpoint move the cursor to the appropriate line
and select the "set breakpoint" command. There is an
option on the preference dialog which controls whether
lines with breakpoints are marked.

To view and jump to a breakpoint select the "show/goto"
command.

To remove a breakpoint select the "clear" command.

VIEWING AND SETTING VARIABLES
-----------------------------

Any local variable may be viewed or set from the debugger.
Note that in the current version of the debugger it is not
possible to set or view global variables or procedure
arguments.

To view a local variable move the cursor to the variable so
that the cursor is somewhere within the variable name. Then
select the "show variable" command. A dialog box will appear
showing the memory address for the variable and its current
value. In the case of strings it also displays the maximum
length possible for the string.
                              
To set a local variable proceed as with viewing a variable
but select the "set variable" command.

The "show memory" and the "set memory" commands may be used
to view and set memory within the running programs data
segment. The default address given with these options will
be the location where the current procedures local variables
are stored. Memory may be viewed by type (e.g. a byte,
integer, string,...) or as a block of bytes showing the
decimal values and character values.

Be very careful when setting variables or memory using the
debugger!

RESTRICTIONS
------------

The following restrictions apply when writing OPL
applications which are to be debugged:

- The debugger uses a local variable called oppdbgstk%,
  so don't use a variable with this name in your code!

- The debugger relies on three debug procedures so you
  must not use procedures with the same name within your own
  code:

                DBGL:
                DBGP:
                DBGINIT:

- The debugger stores information at location 38 in a
  processes low memory error. This location is normally used
  with the Psion SDK C debugger and so should not cause a
  problem with normal OPL code.

- The debugger uses message passing to communicate with
  the running program. It uses the Psion OS calls MessInit,
  MessSignal and MessSendReceiveWithWait. If you use these low-
  level calls within your own programs it may interfere with
  the debugging of the program. Let me know if this cause a
  problem with a particular program you are writing.

It is possible to work around all of the above
restrictions (except the first) by making changes to the
supplied OPPDBG.OPH file. This file is an already
preprocessed OPP include file. I have a commented and
formated copy (not supplied) which is easier to read and
understand. Let me know if any of the above restrictions
cause a problem with a particular program you are writing
so that I can advise how to modify OPPDBG.OPH.

ADVANCED DEBUGGING
------------------

Using OPP directives to control debug translation
-------------------------------------------------

To write your code so that debugging can be turned on and
off easily use something like the following:

        /* comment out next line to prevent building program
           under debug */
        #define DEBUG

        #ifdef DEBUG
                #pragma debug
        #endif

        ...

        #ifdef DEBUG
                #include <OPPDBG>
        #endif

Debugging a small section of code
---------------------------------

When using the debugger it is best to translate the entire
program under debug so that all sections of code can be
followed. However this is not required in order to use the
debugger. You may, if you wish, just translate one procedure
or a small number of procedures under debug. In this case
the application will run as normal until it gets to one of
the debugged procedures. At that point the debugger will
spring into action and pause the program. You may then view
and control the execution of the debugged procedures. Note
that in this case if the code makes a call to a non-debug
procedure you will not be able to view or control the
execution until it returns back to a debugged procedure.

The #pragma debug command has the following syntax:

        #pragma debug [on|off]

By default without an "on" or "off" qualifier debug is
turned on, the off option may be used to turn off debugging
of the code from that point onwards. So by turning debug on
and off between two points in the code it is possible to
control which sections of code are translated with debug
enabled.

Note that the debug pragma should be used in-between
procedures, not within the middle of a procedure!

Debugging large applications
----------------------------

For large applications one of the following techniques is
often used:

1.One large application built using the OPP #include
  facility.

2.A main application module which loads other modules
  using the OPL LOADM command.

The debugger will work with either of these scenarios and
can handle the case where the source code is split over a
number of files. The debugger will automatically open and
display each source file as the program executes provided
that you have not moved the source file in-between
translating and running the program.

In the first case add the #pragma debug command either as
the first line of source or at appropriate points throughout
the code (using the #pragma debug on and #pragma debug off
options). The #include <OPPDBG> line may appear anywhere
within the source (except before the first procedure),
provided that it appears once.

For the second technique the same rules apply, i.e. the
sections of code to be debugged should be controlled using
the #pragma debug OPP directive. The #include <OPPDBG> line
should preferable appear in the first module, although
provided that no debug code is called prior to loading a
module it may also be placed within a secondary module.

Using the Series 3a Emulator on a PC
------------------------------------

The debugger may be run on a PC using the Psion Series 3a
emulator. This has the advantage that it allows the
editor screen to display more lines of code (provided the
screen size has been adjusted) and the editor displays
source much more quickly.



