TIDE98   (tide level calculator with link to GPS)
Version 2.2  (September 1998)
Jean-Yves  Pontailler

                     DISCLAIMER

This   program  has  been  tested  and   should   run
successfully  on your Series 3a/c. You can  copy  and
distribute it in its zipped form as long as you don't
modify  it. TIDE98 is used entirely at the  user  own
risk.  To  reduce this risk, please review  carefully
this instruction file. When sailing, be sure to check
all the local parameters you are using to run it.  In
all  cases,  you must absolutely add a  large  safety
margin to the program estimates.

INSTALLATION
Copy  the  file TIDE982.OPA to an \APP\ directory  on
any  drive.  Copy  the  file  TIDE.DAT  on  an  \OPD\
directory on any drive. This file contains  the  tide
coefficients for 1998 but the program is able to  run
without it. If you are interested in an on-line help,
install  the  TIDE.RSC file in an \OPD\ directory  on
any  drive. The use of Flash disks causes no problem.
Then  install  the  OPA  file using  Psion-I  or  the
"Application" menu.

UPGRADING TIDE97
If  you are using TIDE97 and if you wish to carry  on
with  it,  simply rename TIDE.DAT as  COEF97.DAT  and
install  it instead of the previous COEF97.DAT  file.
This new file contains coefficients applicable to the
year 1998.

TIDE98  has several improvements compared with TIDE97
(see  below).  To install it if you have  been  using
TIDE97 previously, you can delete all ancient files :
TIDE97.OPO in \OPO\ directory, COEF97.DAT,  MARGB.RSC
and  MARS.INI in \OPD\ directory (the latter file  is
in  the  internal  disk). The  MARK.ODP  file,  which
contains your own GPS data, is unchanged but  has  to
be renamed as TIDE.GPS. Then install the new files as
exposed above. Upgrading TIDE98 (from version 2.0  to
v.  2.2)  requires the replacement of the application
file (.OPA) and that of the help file if necessary.

BRIEF DESCRIPTION
TIDE98  calculates  the tide height  (above  zero  on
charts)  for any coast in western Europe and displays
it  continuously, the screen being updated every  60,
30  or 20 seconds. For that, the time for the nearest
high  tide is required, as well as the maximum  tidal
range in the considered zone (constant). TIDE98  does
not  predict the time of the tide : you have to enter
it  (at  least once). I have added to this version  a
very simple follow-up of the tide schedule (day after
day),  but it has to be handled with caution. If  you
are  interested in a reliable prediction of the  time
of  tides,  try  Ocean  by Pierre  Pellot,  it  works
extremely well !

If  the  Series  3a/c is connected to  a  Garmin  GPS
receiver, TIDE98 displays coordinates from  GPS.  The
user  can save these coordinates and other data in  a
database file compatible with the "DATA" application.
Distance, bearing and speed are now displayed in this
new version.

When  familiar with the programme, the user  has  the
possibility  to adjust other parameters in  order  to
obtain a better fit.

FROM THE THEORY TO THE APPLICATION
The  tide  phenomenon appears rather  complicated  as
soon as you try do describe it precisely all over the
world.  Its  cause  is  astronomical,  that  is   the
attraction  of the water of the oceans  by  the  moon
and,  to  a lower degree, by the sun. In theory,  one
must  observe  two tidal waves in  24  hours  and  50
minutes, duration of an apparent rotation of the moon
as seen from the earth.
**** The time of the tide
High  tide  is supposed to occur twice during  this
period, once when the moon is above the site and once
when  it  is  in  the  opposite  direction,  but  the
presence  of continents makes the reality  much  more
complex. As an example, the tide wave should go  from
east  to  west through the channel in less  than  one
hour..  but it goes the other way round and  takes  8
hours to do so !
**** The amplitude of the tide
The  intensity of the phenomenon varies according  to
the  respective position of both moon and sun  (their
effects acting together or opposing themselves),  but
also  depends on the shape of the shore  and  on  the
size of the oceans and seas.
**** The option chosen in TIDE98
I  thought  it  was pertinent to make use,  in  every
harbour,  of precise local data that are  freely  and
easily  available : the time of the  high  tide,  the
maximal tidal range (a constant local parameter)  and
the  tide coefficient. The first two of them are easy
to  find  nearly  everywhere. By contrast,  the  tide
coefficient exists in France only.
**** The tide coefficient
It  is calculated by the SHOM (Service Hydrographique
et  Oceanographique de la Marine), has  no  unit  and
ranges   from   20  to  120.  The  tide   coefficient
integrates twice a day the astronomical components of
the   tide.  People  often  suppose  that  the   tide
coefficient is valid in France only since  it  refers
to  Brest. In fact, it is reliable in a large part of
western Europe (showing semi-daily tides). In France,
the  tide coefficient is present everywhere, even  at
the TV. As it is not the case in other countries, the
program  will  load it every day  of  1998  from  the
TIDE.DAT file.
**** Calculation mode
The  program  assumes  that  the  tide  wave  has   a
sinusoidal  shape  and  modifies  its  period  and/or
amplitude  according to the value  of  several  input
parameters.  This period is about  12  hours  and  25
minutes, but is lightly weighted as a function of the
tide  coefficient (the period is longer  during  neap
tides).   The   program  is   able   to   deal   with
dissymetrical  tide  waves (ebb taking  often  longer
than flow) if you expect so.

TIDE98  has kept a reasonable size (16k and 21k  with
the two associated files) and usually provides a good
fit.  When  you  will be familiar  with  one  or  two
constant characteristics of your favourite spot,  you
will  only have to enter the time of the nearest high
tide to run it.

The  following  comments also appear in  the  on-line
help in an abridged form.

MAIN PARAMETERS
When  you  launch TIDE98, a dialog appears  requiring
several  parameters. You must at least  document  two
parameters :
-  The time of the nearest high tide (no matter if it
is  passed or in the future) in a 24 hour format.  If
you  are sailing in the evening and if the high  tide
is  expected  after midnight (so the following  day),
you can use it but you must type H+24 (i.e. 27 for  3
am).  The  programme  will be more  accurate  if  you
always enter the nearest high tide.
- The maximal tidal range in the concerned zone. This
parameter  is constant for a given site.  Some  tidal
ranges  are  mentioned at the end of  this  file  for
about  60  harbours  in  western  Europe.  For  other
places,  you  can contact me or have a look  at  this
site : www.shom.fr.

The  tide  coefficient of the current day is supplied
(for  1998)  if you have loaded the file TIDE.DAT  in
any  \OPD\ directory. If no coefficient is available,
the   dialog   displays  the  default  value   :   20
corresponding  to an exceptional neap tide.  Enter  a
coefficient within the valid range (20-120).

When   you  validate  the  dialog,  the  main  screen
appears,  showing the tide level on  the  right.  The
expected  range for the current day is also shown.  I
have  added a tide level expressed in feet. Menu  and
Help keys are now active. You can shift time forwards
or  backwards using the right or left arrows (15  min
step).

After  60, 30 or 20 seconds (depending on the  option
you  have selected, default value is 60), the display
indicates  a tide status : rising tide, tide  on  the
ebb   or   slack   tide.  Then  the  programme   runs
continuously (no auto shut-off) but you can check the
battery level on the status window.

TYPE OF TIDE
TIDE98  supports semi-daily tides only :  two  cycles
every 24 H 50 mn, i.e. 6 H 12 mn between a high  tide
and  the following (or previous) low tide. Semi-daily
tides are dominant in western Europe.

PRESSURE CORRECTION
An  elevated  atmospheric pressure lightly  decreases
the  water  level.  Enter  a  value  for  atmospheric
pressure (mb), the default value is 1013 mb  or  hPa.
The  program applies a correction equal to  -1cm  per
extra  millibar. Without correction, an error  rises,
that  can  reach 30 cm. This correction is  optimized
for  the  Channel and may be too important at  places
experiencing lower tidal ranges.

DISSYMMETRICAL TIDE WAVE
The  rise and the fall often differ in duration,  the
latter  being usually longer. If known, this lag  can
be  taken  into  account.   Use  the  line  "ebb-flow
differential" in the main dialog. Beware of the  sign
of  "ebb minus flow". The lag is negative in the rare
case  where flow takes longer than ebb. Default value
is  0. Dissymetry is moderate in the western part  of
the  channel (+20 mn) but increases up to +45 mn when
approaching the Straits of Dover.

This  correction  is valid only within  the  two  low
tides  that  are  immediately before  and  after  the
considered  high  tide. If you let  the  program  run
further, it will return to a symmetrical mode but you
won't  notice it since it occurs at low  tide  during
the slack.

ACCURACY
Accuracy is globally satisfying when local parameters
are  used. Errors are mainly due to the fact that the
period  fluctuates a little around its average  value
(that  is  12 h 25 mn). This causes discrepancies  on
the  water  level that may reach 30 cm.  Total  error
should  not  go  beyond 70 cm in  zones  experiencing
important  tidal ranges, when including  unfavourable
wind and pressure effects.

TIDE98 is not a tide time calculator but, if you have
used  it  at least once, it will propose an estimated
tide  time  at  every subsequent use.  For  that,  it
computes  a 50 minutes lag per day, an average  value
whereas  the real lag fluctuates between  25  and  90
minutes. As a result, the estimation of the  time  of
the tide will oscillate around the correct value with
an error reaching 120 minutes in the worst cases. The
magnitude  of  this  error is not  depending  on  the
number  of  days passed since the last entry.  It  is
always  preferable to enter a new tide  time  from  a
local tide table.

ZERO LEVEL
TIDE98  displays the tide level above a "zero  level"
that  corresponds to the minimum effectively possible
(in  fact,  a  few  centimeters are often  added  for
security).  Lower  values (negative)  should  not  be
displayed, unless you have applied a large barometric
correction.  This zero level usually  corresponds  to
the   zero  level  on  charts  but  there  are   some
exceptions  in UK (zero level=average  low  level  of
spring tides) making a correction necessary. You  can
adjust this zero offset in "Options" if you wish so.

SOLAR AZIMUTH
I  thought  that it could be of some interest  to  be
aware of the direction of the sun. This function uses
data  from  the "WORLD" option, such as the longitude
and  the GMT offset of your home city (even if a  GPS
receiver is connected). So you have to select a  home
city  that  is  close  to the  place  where  you  are
navigating.   You  can  also  create  one   at   your
convenience.

Initially,  the  programme calculates a  geographical
bearing. To display a compass bearing, you must enter
a magnetic declination in "Options".

The  calculation is rather simple and does  not  take
into  account the "equation of time" that  quantifies
the  observed difference between the mean solar  time
and  the true solar time. The error is less than  1.5
degree  during  summer and less  than  4  degrees  in
winter (in northern hemisphere).

OPTIONS
This dialog gives access to several settings :
*Magnetic  declination  : if documented,  a  magnetic
bearing  is  displayed  for  solar  azimuth  and  for
bearing.
*Updating rate : you can update the display every 60,
30 or 20 seconds.
*Geodesic  system  :  coordinates  from  GPS  can  be
displayed (and saved) either  in  EUROPEAN 50  or  in
WGS 84 system.
*Daylight savings time: the estimation of the  height
of  the  tide uses the system time, so DST  is  taken
into  account.  By contrast, the calculation  of  the
azimuth  of the sun uses the GMT offset from  "WORLD"
that  ignores DST. Thus, select "Yes" during  summer.
This   won't  affect  your  settings  in  the  "TIME"
application.
*Reference  mark  : you can enter a  threshold  level
(rock,  anchorage) to be displayed in  the  tide  bar
diagram. Enter the sum draught + level above zero.
*Zero  offset : to adjust the gap between zero  level
on  charts  and  lowest  water level  at  exceptional
spring tides (default value : 0.20 m).

DELAYED ESTIMATION
You can also calculate the tide level at a time which
differs  from the system time. For that,  select  the
option  "Time  different from system" at  the  bottom
right of the main screen.

LINK TO GARMIN GPS RECEIVERS
This function should work with models II, 38, 40, 45,
65 and 75 and enables :
1-   to   display  continuously  on  the   3a/c   the
coordinates from the GPS unit (using either WGS 84 or
EURO  50  grid),  the  distance  covered,  speed  and
bearing,
2-  if you wish so, to save these coordinates in real
time, together with other information, for example to
mark  your  route or a remarkable diving  or  fishing
spot.  This  function is useful but  is  far  from  a
complete  GPS  utility programme such  as  PSIGAR  by
Jonathan Duff.
**** Connecting to the GPS receiver
For  this, you need a Psion serial link and a  Garmin
lead with bare wires. In my opinion, the best way  to
achieve  the connection is to link the bare wires  to
the  podule on the serial link. You have  to  find  a
male  9 pin mini-Din plug and solder the three  wires
as follows :
   - pin 2 : brown (GPS to Psion)
   - pin 3 : white (Psion to GPS)
   - pin 5 : black (ground)
The  soldering operation will be easier if you  first
cut  the useless pins. To identify the correct  pins,
refer  to the appendix C of the 3-Link manual  or  to
the  end  of  the  PSIWIN manual. If  you  prefer  to
connect  the bare wires to the Sub-9 female  plug  of
the  3-Link,  note  that the brown  wire  has  to  be
soldered on pin 3 and the white one on pin 2  (pin  5
being unchanged).
**** Achieving the connection
As  soon as the cable is in place, setup your  Garmin
receiver  to  GRMN/GRMN communication  protocole  and
make  sure that the Psion link is turned OFF  on  the
system  screen of your 3a/c. In TIDE98 menu, validate
the option "Link to GPS". After a control dialog, the
link is established and the coordinates from the  GPS
are  displayed  in real time instead  of  those  from
"WORLD".  If you launch the connection with a  faulty
cable  or  a  GPS  not  being  set  for  the  correct
protocole, the program will hang up and you will have
to exit using Psion-ESC. Beware, when connected, your
Psion  draws twice as much power as usual  (about  65
mA).

In  this  version, distance, speed  and  bearing  are
calculated   (using   coordinates   from   GPS)   and
displayed.  The distance is that covered between  the
connection of the GPS unit and the present  location.
If you go back to your starting point, zero should be
displayed. Use key R to reset. A magnetic bearing  is
displayed  if  you  enter a magnetic  declination  in
"Options".

If you select the "Mark" option (key M), you can save
your  actual  position together with time,  date  and
depth,  into a data file. You can document two  lines
in  the  dialog : the depth from a depth finder  (the
program will substract the tide level from it) and  a
comment   (36   characters  max.).  The   data   file
(\OPD\TIDE.GPS) is created in the internal drive when
you  use the "Mark" function for the first time.  You
can  browse  and modify it using the DATA application
(it  does  not appear on the system screen, you  must
select  it with the file manager). You can  also  add
pertinent line titles (time, latitude...).



GRID CONVERSION AND DISTANCE CALCULATION
Several  converting utilities are  available  in  the
"GPS   SECTION"  menu.  Have  regard  at  the  format
indicated in the dialogs. These routines are  totally
independent  of  the other sections  of  TIDE98.  The
option   "Distance   between  two  points"   requests
coordinates    expressed   in   degrees   (ddd.dddd),
negatives values being used for South and West.

EXIT
When  you  exit  the program, your own  settings  are
saved  in an \OPD\TIDE.INI file in the internal disk.
This  file  is created when you launch the  programme
for the first time. The high tide time is used during
the current day only. Every following day, a time lag
is   added  in  order  to  follow  roughly  the  tide
schedule. The tide coefficient is not saved since  it
is retrieved from another data file.


SOME VALUES  FOR  THE  MAX. TIDAL  RANGE  IN  WESTERN
EUROPE :

Northern countries and islands
Arendal : 0.50 m    Bergen : 1.60 m   Bodo :  3.30 m
Reykjavik : 4.90 m  Rorvik : 2.89 m
Shetland I. : 2.40 m

Scotland
Aberdeen : 4.90 m Dundee : 5.60 m Greenock  : 4.60 m
Inverness : 5.30 m  Leith  (Edinburgh)  : 6.40 m
Ullapool  :  5.60  m    Wick : 4 m

Ireland
Belfast : 4.10 m  Cobh (Cork) : 4.60 m  Dublin : 5 m
Galway : 5.50 m  Londonderry : 3.10 m
Shannon river : 5.30 m

Denmark and Germany
Borkum : 3.70 m Bremerhaven : 5.10 m
Cuxhaven : 4.80  m  Esbjerg : 2.50 m
Helgoland :  3.90  m   Hirtshals : 0.30 m

Belgium & Holland
Antwerpen : 6.50 m   Oostende : 6.10 m
The hague : 3.10 m   Terschelling : 2.70 m

Great Britain & Channel Islands
Barrow  in Furness : 10.90 m    Liverpool : 10.90  m
Holyhead : 6.20 m  Fishguard  :  5.60  m
Milford  Haven  :  7.50  m
Swansea : 10.30 m  Cardiff : 12.60 m  Falmouth : 6 m
Plymouth : 6.30 m  Torquay :  5 m  Lyme bay : 4.40 m
Portland  I.  :  2.90  m     Portsmouth  :  5.50   m
Shoreham (Brighton) : 6.90 m
Dover : 8.30 m  Sheerness : 6.90 m  Harwich : 4.80 m
Lowesoft : 3 m  Hull  :  8.30  m
Tyne R. (Newcastle)  :  5.70  m  Jersey : 11.90 m
Guernesey : 9.40 m

France
Calais : 7.30 m    Dieppe : 10 m    Fecamp : 8.60 m
Port-en-Bessin : 7.50 m   Cherbourg : 6.70 m
Portbail : 12.50     Granville : 14.40 m
Saint-Malo : 13.40 m Les  Heaux de Brehat : 10.70 m
Roscoff :  9.50  m  Brest  :  7.50  m
Audierne : 5.60 m   Concarneau  : 5.40 m
Lorient : 5.50 m    Belle-Ile (Le Palais) :  5.60  m
Houat : 5.60 m   Le Croisic  :  6.10  m
St-Nazaire : 6.50 m Ile d'Yeu (P Joinville) : 5.50 m
Les sables d'Olonne : 5.70 m    La Rochelle : 6.50 m
Pointe de Grave : 5.40 m
Arcachon (Eyrac) : 4.80 m    Cote landaise : 4.50  m
St Jean de Luz : 4.80 m

Spain, Portugal, Canary, Madeira & Acores
Bilbao : 4.40 m  Santander : 4.70 m  La Coruna : 4 m
Vigo : 3.90 m   Lisbon : 4.10 m     Cadiz : 3.50 m
Acores :  1.80  m  Canary : 2.40 m  Madeira : 2.50 m

                    ************

Thanks  are  due to Jonathan Duff, Simon  Pooley  and
Mike Rudin for their efficient help. I am indebted to
the  SHOM  (Service Hydrographique et Oceanographique
de  la  Marine) for allowing me to give  out  a  file
containing  the  tide coefficients among  Psion  3a/c
users.

You  can contact me to obtain precise data concerning
your  favourite spot (especially if it is in France).
I   am  interested  in  any  feedback  on  GPS  link,
especially on the accuracy of coordinates using  EURO
50  grid  or  any  report  on various  models  within
Garmin's range (only models 38 and II+ were tested).

Few  developments are planned yet but it will largely
depend  on you. Feel free to mail me, I will be  very
happy to read your comments :

       jean-yves.pontailler@eco.u-psud.fr

If  you are angry with my bad English, please mail me
a few amendments...

Thanks  to Pierre Pellot for hosting me on its  Psion
Nautical   Site,   you  will  find  there   excellent
software.

      http://www.enfrance.com/p.pellot/

Tide  coefficients  to run TIDE98  in  1999  will  be
available on this site by Christmas.

A French version is also available (TIDE982f).
Have fun



