
                               Psionopoly

                             - User Guide -

Installation
------------
	To install Psionopoly, you must first copy over the necessary files. 
The files must be on either your Psion’s internal, or the A or B drives.
If you want to use Psionopoly on a Series 3a, 3c or Siena, use the 
MONOP3A.OPA or if you are using a Series 3, use MONOP3.OPA. Either should be
put in a \APP\ directory. The CHANCE.ODB, MONOP.ODB, CURSOR.PIC & MONOP.PIC files 
need to be in a \PSP\ directory. The PSPHELP.RSC file is optional, but if you
don't install it then you won't be able to press help to find out how to play
the game. The help function only works on a Series 3a or 3c. All of the
information held in the help facility is availbile in this text file.
	Once the files are in place, you can press Psion+I from the system 
screen to select the OPA file to install it.

Starting A Game
---------------
   You can start Psionopoly by selecting it's icon and pressing enter 
from the system screen in the usual way. Once started, Psionopoly should 
display a message saying 'Initialising'. You have to wait for 
a short while until the message disappears.

Keys
----
Psion-N New game
Psion-L Restore
Psion-S Save
Psion-R Roll
Psion-B Buy houses
Psion-H Sell Houses
Psion-M Mortgage Properties
Psion-U Un-mortgage
Psion-T Trade properties
Psion-V View Free Parking
Psion-W Who's go it it?
Psion-C Change Board
Psion-I Tip Board
Psion-A About
Psion-X Exit
ESC also exits.

The cursor keys move the cursor.
Psion-Up or Psion-Down scroll the player info. screen.
Psion-Left or Psion-Right shows a diferent player's screen.
Enter shows a card for the property under the cursor.
Space will also roll the dice.
Help shows these help screens.

Beginning a new game
--------------------
Press Psion-N to start a new game. A dialog should
appear asking for the names of the players. Type
them in and then press down after each one to
move to the next spot. Press enter when you have
done. Another dialog should be displayed asking
what pieces the players want to be. Here, you can press
up or down to select the different players and
left or right to select the different pieces. Press
enter to finish choosing. The next screen will
show the options for the game. If you just press
enter you will start with the 'official' rules. The
money on free parking option decides whether you
want money from Chance, Comm. Chest and taxes to
go on the free parking space. The next option 
decides how much money you want to go on Free
Parking to start with. Type in a number from 0
to 1500. The auction properties option decides
whether properties will be auctioned when they are
un-wanted.

Properties
----------
The colours of the properties are represented by
symbols in Psionopoly. So Park Lane and Mayfair both
have '[[ ]]' for there symbol. The symbol for each property
wraps around the name of the it

Player Information Screen
-------------------------
The place information screen stays on the right
side of the screen permanantly. It shows what
properties each player owns. The properties in
italic are mortgaged. See the 'Keys' section to
see the keys for the player info. screen.

Rolling
-------
To roll the dice, press Psion-R or Space. You should only do
this after you have done any other options you want
to, like buying houses. Otherwise you won't be able
to do them until your next turn.
Upon pressing the keys two dice should appear.
Press any key to stop them. Your piece will now move
along the board.

Buying Properties
-----------------
If you land on an un-owned property, you be asked
if you want to buy it. Press Y to do so, or N to not.
If you press Esc you will be able to look at the player
information screens. From here, you can press Up or
Down to scroll or left and right to look at other players'
screens. Pressing Esc will bring you back to the descision
screen. If you say no, and the option is enabled, you will
have to auction the property to other players. Pressing
menu on the option screen will allow you to do all things
that will increase your money, like trading so you can
build up enough money to buy the property.

Auctioning
----------
Auctioning is an option under the new game facility. It is
an 'official' rule but some people don't like to play with
that option. If someone declines an offer to buy a property
from the banker then an auction must be conducted. In
Psionopoly, you just type in the end result. When the
auction window is displayed, you can decide who is buying
the property by highlighting that item with the up and down
keys then pressing left and right to select the player. If you
select the amount option then you can type in the amount of
money the final person wants to pay for the property. Once
you have done that, press S to accept the auction.
While conducting the auction, players can press I to
look at there player information screen. Once done, you can
press up and down to scroll the player information screen
or left and right to look at another players' screen. When
you have finished, press ESC to go back to the auctioning
window. At the auctioning window, you can press ESC to
conduct no auction.

Buying houses and hotels
------------------------
If you want to buy a house press Psion-B. Before you can
buy houses or hotels you have to own all the properties of
a street. When you press Psion-B a window appears asking
you to type in the name of a property. If the cursor is over
a property then then name of that property will be in the
box as a shortcut. If you don't want the property shown,
just type part of another property's name. The hightlighted
name will automatically be removed. Having done that, you
can press down to highlight the amount of houses option.
Press the left or right keys to decide how many houses you
want. Psionopoly treats hotels as 5 houses, so to add a hotel
to a property that already has 3 houses on it, you have to add
two houses. In the real game, you have to spread your houses
out among the street. Psionopoly doesn't force you to do this
but you should, otherwise it is cheating. Press enter when
you have finished entering your options. The next window
will ask you if the property it found was the one you wanted.
If it is, press Y otherwise press N.

Selling Houses and hotels
-------------------------
To sell houses or hotels you must first press Psion-H. Once
you have done that, a search window will appear. The name of
the property under the cursor will be highlighted. If that is the
property you want to remove houses from, just press enter.
Otherwise you have to type in the name or part of the name of
the property you want. Press enter when you have done that.
If you have a hotel on the property that you typed in, then a
window will ask whether you want to remove it. Press Y to do
so, or N to not. If you do so, you will get half the price you paid
for the hotel, and half the price of the four houses, as you do
in the real game. If the property had houses on it, then a
window will be displayed asking how many houses you want
to remove. Press left and right to select the number, enter
to accept or ESC to cancel.

Mortgaging Properties
---------------------
To mortgage a property, press Psion-M. Having done so,
a search window will be shown. If there was a property
under the cursor then the name of it will be highlighted in
the window. Press enter if you want to mortgage that
property or type in the name, or part of the name, of the
property you want to mortgage. Press enter when you
have done. A confirmation window will then appear. Press
Y to mortgage the property or N to not.

Un-Mortgaging properties
------------------------
To un-mortgage a property, press Psion-U. If the property
you want is un-mortgaged, just press enter when the
search window comes up. Otherwise type in the name or part
of the name of the property you want. Press enter when you
have done so. After you do that, a window will be shown
asking you if you are sure. It will also show you how much
un-mortgageing that particular property costs. Press Y
to un-mortgage it, or N to not. If you press N, the search
window will be displayed again.

Trading Properties
------------------
To trade a property, you first have to press Psion-T. A
window should appear called 'Trade'. In this window you
have to select the buyer, seller  and what you want to trade
for (money or another property). Select these with the
cursor keys in the usual way. Press enter when you have
selected your options. Having done so, a window should be
displayed asking you to 'enter a search string'. Here should
type in the name (or part of the name) of the property you
want to trade. So if you wanted to swap Old Kent Rd you could
just type 'old'. If you have chosen to trade two properties
then another search string window will appear for the other
property. Type it in in the same way as before. If you instead
chose to swap for money then you will be asked how much
money you want to pay. Just type it in and press enter. The
properties will then be swapped or sold.

Special Trading
---------------
Here is two ways to do more complicated trading:
- To give things away for free, sell them for œ0.
- To swap two properties for one property, give one away
for free then swap the others.
- To give people money, buy a property off of them and make
them give it back for free.

Add Player
----------
You can use this function to add a player to the your game.
This function is only supposed to be used if you have been
playing a game for a while and somebody decides they want
to join in. You can decide how much money to give them and
what un-owned properties you want to give them. When you
have selected this option, a window will appear for you to
type in the name of the new player, then press down and type
in the amount of money for him/her then complete the
process with the enter key. After that, a window will appear
for you to select what piece you want to be. You can also
change the other pieces here if you wish. The next window
will ask you to type in the name or part of the name of a
property to give to the new player. This property must'nt
be owned already.
When you are finished giving properties, press Esc.

View free parking
-----------------
If you press Psion-V, you will be told how much money is on
the free parking space.

Who's go is it
--------------
If you press Psion-W, you will be told whose turn it is.

Changing the board
------------------
This is a special option. On my web site
(http://www.mag-net.co.uk/~martinr/neil/board.html)
there is a document about this.

Tipping the board up
--------------------
Only do this option if you want to end your game. It is just
for fun and is completly pointless.

If you want to do it, press Psion-I. You will be asked if you are
sure. Press Y to continue, or N to not. After that, sit back and
enjoy.

Cheating
--------
It is quite easy to cheat in Psionopoly because you can
trade behind peoples backs and you don't have to spread
your houses out. I think this makes it more like the real game,
where you can try and get away with it. So I won't change
any of that.

There is also another secret keypres cheat, try to find it
if you want.

Jump to Player
--------------
Selecting this option will ove the cursor over where the
current player is. You can shortcut to it by using Psion-J.


Refresh Info Screen
-------------------
This option will redraw the player information screen so it
has up to date information.

Sound On/Off
------------
This option will allow you to turn the sound off. It only affects
the beeps when your player is moving after you roll the die.
If you turn the sound off then save your game, when you load
it again the sound will still be off.

Show Jail Cards
---------------
If you select this function then you will be shown how many
'get out of jail free' cards each player has.

About
-----
This option will display information about Psionopoly and it
will tell you that I wrote it.

Extra
-----
	Psionopoly was mostly written in my summer holidays and other 
spare time I had. The program is totally free to anyone who wants it as 
long as they don't modify it in any way.
	If you have noticed the change board option under the special menu
on Psionopoly, you may be wondering what it does. It allows you to change
the board, piece, houses and hotels to suit a specific theme just by
loading one PIC file. A document is availible on my web site about this
at:		http://www.mag-net.co.uk/~martinr/neil/psion.html


The 'Thanks To...' bit
----------------------
Who?			What?
Marc Warne		Being head of Alpha and advertising my game.
Paul Roberts		For drawing the pieces and giving me some
			suggestions for options.
James Dewhurst		For playtesting and giving some suggestions.
John Boyce		For writing JBData which helped to make the
			ODB files used in Psionopoly.
Mark Jones		For playtesting and suggesting options.
Tom Stainthorpe		For giving me a few suggestions.
Martin Roberts		For helping a very little bit with the code,
			giving me a few suggestions and loaning me his
			Siena to test the Siena mode.