                              NPLauncher
                             Version 1.0
                            (c)JBSoft 1997

                                 Ё
                                 цд©
                               юбады
                                юд©
                                дды

Overview
--------
Notepad DeLuxe allows the user to configure the PIC launcher to be
something other than a program to view pictures (this is done on the
Set preferences menu under Files). NPLauncher allows more than one
program to be used in this slot by using the filename extension to
select the actual program used.

Installation
------------
NPLAUNCH.OPA should be placed in an \APP directory and the file
selected in Notepad using Set Preferences | Files to be the file to
launch to view pictures. To enable the editing of the lookup file
(either JBTREE.DBF or EXTN.DBF) then the program should also be
installed somewhere on the System screen.

Now comes the complex bit. If you already use JBTree and have an
\APP\JBTREE\JBTREE.DBF file then you need to do nothing. Otherwise you
will need to place the EXTN.DBF file in an \APP\NPAD directory
(preferably one that is in RAM rather than in Flash as the file will
probably be edited - this is not too important though as the file is
unlikely to grow to much and can be classed as Flash-friendly). You
can install it on any drive (M:, A: or B:).

Use
---
Select the link in the normal way - select the PIC button and you will
be asked for a file to view. You will need to press Tab twice to edit
the section as the default is .PIC - it is probably best to change
this to "*.*". Navigate to the file you wish to look at and press
Enter twice. The rest of the operation now behaves like any other of
the links in Notepad.

When the Link is selected my program will do a lookup on the filename
extension and launch the appropriate application along with the file.
If the program is already running then it will jump to it rather than
start another version.

Unlike with JBLaunch this program does not terminate immediately on
running the new application - this is because, when the new app is
closed down, you end on the System screen rather than in Notepad. It
should therefore not be used to run multiple programs at the same time
as resources will soon run out.

Edit the lookup database
------------------------
To edit the .DBF file you will need to have installed the NPLaunch
application onto the System screen. Just highlight the name under the
icon and press Enter - in this mode it will automatically go into the
configuration option.

You will be taken to Data and allowed to either edit existing records
or create a new one.

The format is as follows...

There are four fields in the configuration file:

1. Extension      - this is the extension the launch utility will use
                    to determine which database record in JBTREE.DBF
                    to use. When launching a file the database is
                    searched for an extension which matches that of
                    the file to launch.
2. Run filename   - this is the program to run in conjunction with the
                    file selected (e.g. WRD extension should use
                    ROM::WORD.APP). Any OPO or OPA file should use
                    ROM::SYS$PRGO.IMG.
3. Extra filename - This field is for use with OPA files that use file
                    lists (e.g. Notepad). If this field is used then
                    it is probable that the Run filename will be
                    ROM::SYS$PRGO.IMG.
4. Alias Info     - currently the only program that would use this
                    field is WORD unless there is a 3rd party
                    application of which I am unaware.  The two .ALS
                    files (PROGRAM and SCRIPT) in the ROM should not
                    be called explicitly - they are loaded as required
                    according to the alias data. Briefly:
                    The first letter specifies Program or Script
                    (either O or S) - the second letter specifies if
                    RUN is allowed and the next three letters give
                    both the top directory any compiled programs are
                    placed in and also the files extension.
                    A text editor can be started by using the alias
                    character of $.

I have enclosed a couple of examples in the basic file but the example
for PIC files will almost certainly need editing as it is unlikely
your machine is set up in the same way as mine.

Thanks
------
Thank you to Michael Baas for the initial idea and to Mark Esposito
for giving it his blessing and for writing Notepad in the first place.

Contact
-------
John Boyce
CompuServe: 100014,1240
CIX: jboyce
Internet: john@jbsoft.cix.co.uk