Calendar Notes
for Psion Series 3a/3c/3mx
Version 2.1   9th October 1999
Copyright (C) 1999 Philip Bister



Introduction.

Calendar Notes is a monthly calendar with the facility to attach day
notes to any calendar date to remind one of forthcoming events,
general reminders or things to do.

All notes and appointments etc for the day are automatically sorted
into one of four catagories and neatly displayed on a note pad
screen.  Meetings and appointments are displayed in time order.

Calendar Notes has a range
of features including note editing and automatic note tidying to make
the management of notes easier and to lessen the possibility of an
important note being forgotten!

You may view any monthly calendar to year 2155, and for any calendar
date, any number of notes may be attached (up to memory
restrictions).  The program correctly recognises leap years for year
2000 and beyond.

Calendar Notes is not intended to replace the excellent Agenda
application built in to the Psion - the interface and operation is
entirely different.  You may find that you prefer to use Calendar Notes
as well as Agenda, keeping different type of notes on each
application.

The Calendar Notes application makes a handy palmtop companion to
have with you at all times!



Copyright.

Calendar Notes is copyright (C) 1999 Philip Bister.  All rights
reserved.  Reverse engineering/translation is prohibited.



Unsupported freeware.

This program is released as unsupported freeware.  The author regrets
that he cannot enter into correspondence and
therefore a contact address is not given.  However, this is not to say
that updated versions would not be released from time to time via the
3-Lib library.



Distribution.

This version is freeware and may be distributed by any means, eg.
floppy disk, CD ROM, SSD, provided that all of the documentation and
any associated files are included and unaltered.



Disclaimer.

This software is supplied 'as is'.  Every effort has been made to
ensure that the application is free from errors.  However, no
software author can
guarantee it.  The author takes no responsibility as to the
suitability of this products intended purpose, or for the accuracy of
the data contained within it, or for any consequences which may occur
as a result of a malfunction of this software.

You must use this software at your own risk.





What's new in version 2.1

*  The Day Note pad is now headed by tabs - and all notes are sorted
according to the tab headings.

*  Users can arrange the tab order to his/her own preference.

*  Meetings and appointments
now have start times set by dialog.

*  All meetings/appointments are displayed in time order.

*  New jump to month feature - jumps to any month within current
year.

*  All references to Vacation has now been changed to Holiday.

*  Corrected a small bug in the updating code for to do notes.

*  Wordprocessing code completely re-written.

*  Maximum characters for day notes increased from 60 to 90.

*  Pressing Entry key allows more intuitive note entry.

*  Pressing Entry in edit mode allows more intuitive note
editing.

*  Some minor improvements have also been made, including the control
over the screen printing of notes.



Upgrading from version 1.x

Calendar Notes version 2.x does require the use of a different
database structure from the prevous versions.  If you wish to use
your existing notes with v2.x, you will have to intall and run the
upgrader application.  Upgrader v1.0 has been included in the folder
supplied with this version of Calendar Notes, and will copy over all
your existing day notes to the new
database structure.  The orginal database will be left intact!

To make the conversion instal and RUN UPGRADER ONCE ONLY.  Upgrader
will display an on screen report of the upgrading process. Once the
conversion has been made, the Upgrader application can be removed
from your machine as it's no longer required.



Installation.

The Calndr21 folder should contain the following files:

\WRD\Calendar.txt	plain text document file

\OPD\Calendar.rsc	help resource file

\APP\Calndr21.opa	the application

You should ensure
that the above files are correctly copied into the relevant
directories as shown.  Install the application by using Psion-I.

The following application and text file is included for users wishing
to Upgrade their existing version 1.x calendar notes:

\APP\Upgrader.opa 	Upgrader application.

\WRD\Upgrader.txt	Upgrader text file.

Instal Upgrader by using Psion-I.  See the text file Upgrader.txt for
more information.



Keyboard controls (calendar mode).

Enter:  Create a new note for the highlighted day.

Pg Up: 
Advances monthly calendar by one year.

Pg Dn:  Displays previous year.

End:  Advances calendar by one month.

Home:   Displays previous month.

Up/Dn/Left/Right cursor keys move calendar cursor from one day to the
next.

Diamond key:   Scrolls day notes.

Tab:  Activates each tab in turn moving from left to right.

Help:  Displays on-line help (provided Calendar.rsc is present on a
drive)

All other controls may be accessed by the menu.



Keyboard controls (edit mode).

Enter:   Edits displayed entry.

Delete:  Deletes displayed entry.

Diamond key:   Scrolls day notes.



Menu options.

Calendar menu card:

New Notes:  Psion N
Create a new note for the highlighted day.



Edit/Delete:  Shift Psion E
Edit/delete  mode.



Jump to month:  Psion J
Jumps to any month within current year.



Exit:  Psion X
Exits the program



Info menu card:

About:   Psion A
About this application.  Author & version number.



Preferences:   Psion P
Set user preferences



The edit mode menu:
Next note:  Psion N
Scrolls to the next day note



Edit note: Psion E
Edit displayed day note

Pressing Enter key in edit mode, also allows editing of displayed
entry.



Delete note:  Psion D
Delete displayed day note



Exit Edit Mode:  Psion X
Go back to the main calendar/daynotes screen.





Finding your way around.

Calendar Notes screen.

When Calendar Notes starts up, you will be presented with the current
monthly calendar.  Today's date will be highlighted in grey, and the
calendar cursor will be set on today's date.  The calendar is headed
with the current month and
year.  The week number is also shown.

The keyboard cursor keys will move the cursor around the calendar. 
Notice that by moving from one week to the next the week number
changes.

The End key advances the calendar by 1 month.  The Home key moves to
the previous month.

The Pg Up key advances calendar by one year.  Pg Dn key goes back to
the previous year.

To the right of the calendar screen, a day note pad is shown, headed
by four tabs.  One of the tabs will be highlighted.  Calendar Notes
will place notes on
the screen in its catagory under the relevant highlighted tab.  Move
from one tab to the other by pressing the tab key.

See the section on viewing day notes for more information on tab
operation.



Creating a day note.

Use the cursor keys to navigate to a date to attach a day note to.

Create a day note by Psion N or by using the menu, or simply press
the Enter key.  Type your note and select a category from the choice
given (pressing Tab when on the Note Type field will display the
choices).  When finished, press enter to confirm the dialog.

The day note pad will display your new day note under the relevant
highlighted tab.  The calendar screen will refresh, and the calendar
cursor will return to the last used position in the calendar grid. 
The day note screen will be updated.

By the 'title' of each day note, a tick box will be shown. 
Initially, each new day note will be unticked.  The purpose of this
is rather than delete each task as they are completed, they may just
be ticked as complete.

Notice that on the calendar a symbol has appeared to the top right of
the date that was highlighted when the note was made.
The symbols indicate day notes
and enable you to see at a glance where all your notes are!



The symbols.

Calendar Notes uses a range of symbols to indicate the type of notes
that are present, and are displayed on the monthly Calendar.

Basic symbols are displayed to the left of the day number on the
calendar.  A hollow rectangle indicates a general daynote, and a
solid rectangle indicates a holiday.

Extra symbols can be used also, and are displayed to the right of the
day number on the calendar.  Two horizontal dots indicates an
anniversary, and a shaded rectangle to indicate meetings.

The user can switch the extra symbols off from the preferences menu. 
When extra symbols are switched off just two basic symbols will then
be used - a solid rectangle for holidays and a hollow rectangle for
all other day notes.



Tab symbols

In order to see at a glance which tabs contain day notes for a
particular day, a
dark bar is displayed to the top right of a tab.



Viewing day notes.

Move the cursor to where the day note symbols are shown, and all your
notes for that day will be arranged into catagories and displayed
under the tab appertaining to its catagory.  The current highlighted
tab is the active tab.  If day notes are present on a tab a tab
symbol will be shown to the top right of a tab.  Pressing the Tab key
on the keyboard will activate a tab.  Calendar Notes will jump to the
next tab displaying a tab symbol. 
If no tab symbols are shown, the tab highlight will not move.  Calendar
Notes will always try to fit as many notes as possible on the screen.
If there are too many notes for the screen, pressing the diamond key
will display notes a screen at a time.

As you complete your tasks, you may tick them as complete.  The tick
boxes will then show as ticked against completed tasks.  Tick
completed tasks through the edit option.

You may also mark a note with a 'x' to indicate that it's due to be
deleted.  Calendar
Notes will automatically delete notes marked with an 'x' when daynotes
are tidied.  Until that happens you occasionally may see some notes
marked in that way.



Editing notes.

To Edit or delete a note, move the cursor on to the day where the
note would be.  Activate the note pad tab where the note to be edited
will be displayed. Psion Shift E moves to the editing screen. 
Navigate to the note you wish to change or delete by Psion Shift N
(Next Note), or by using the Pg Dn key or diamond key.   Psion E or
Psion D allows editing or deletion.

Note, that you may press the Enter key when in edit mode to edit the
currently displayed note.  Pressing the delete key allows the
displayed note to be deleted.

Alternatively, change the completed task to 'Yes', to tick it's tick
box.  If you wish to delete the note, set the completed task to
'delete' (pressing TAB will display all the options).  Exit the edit
mode to go back to the calendar and day notes screen.



Tabs in order?

The four note pad tabs can be displayed in the
order of your preference.  The order can be changed from the
preferences menu.

This is an important feature of Calendar Notes.  As each tab is
activated in turn from the left by pressing the tab key, and tab
priority is always given to the left tab on start-up.  You may wish
to arrange the most used tab on the left, and the remainder in
decending importance.  For example if you go to a lot of meetings,
why not make the first tab the meetings tab?  Then all your meetings
for the day will be displayed on start-up.



Automatic tidy.

There is no need to delete individual notes as they become old. 
Calendar Notes scans for old notes each time the display is
refreshed.  By default, day notes are kept for 28 days, but the user
may change this from the preferences menu.  All notes older than 28
days (or the user's set limit) will be deleted.

If there are any unchecked To-do notes left over from a previous day,
they will be brought forward to the present day - so you will always
be sure of seeing all your uncompleted tasks for today on startup.



Date & clock display.

The small screen displayed at all times above the calendar shows
todays date and current time according to the Series 3 internal
clock.



Always exit when finished!

Calendar Notes relies on automatic tidying to keep un-required notes
and consumed memory to a minimum.  Be sure to exit when finished
using Calendar notes at the end of each day or work session.



Future versions.

Will Calendar Notes be supported in the future?

The next major development stage for
this application is to create a version to run on the Series 5 range,
although an occasional Series 3 updates may still be released.  So,
Calendar Notes is very much an ongoing project.

Keep a look-out for the next release!



