Upgrader version 1.0   4th September 1999
for Psion 3a/3c/3mx machines.
Copyright (C) 1999  Philip Bister


Upgrader is a small application for upgrading Calendar Notes version 1.0 and 1.2 files to version 2.x

If you are a user of Calendar Notes version 1.0 or 1.2, and you wish to use your existing day note files with Calendar Notes version 2.x - you must install and run Upgrader.opa.  Copy \APP\Upgrader.opa to an \APP directory and install in the usual way.

Before running this software the author recommends that a backup is taken of the v1.x datafile on an SSD.  Although the upgrade operation is reasonably safe, it is wise is take this precaution.  The file to backup is \OPD\CALENDAR.NTE

Upgrader will convert the existing data into a format suitable for use with Calendar Notes v2.x  UPGRADER IS MEANT TO BE RUN ONCE ONLY.  The existing data will be left intact.

Start the Upgrader application from the system screen.  The software will convert the records without any intervention from the user and will exit when completed.  Conversion progress is displayed when running.

After Upgrader has run you may uninstall the application and delete the UPGRADER.OPA file from the \APP directory for it is then no longer required.

NOTE
By default Upgrader sets all meetings and appointments to 12.00am

Copyright.
Calendar Notes and Upgrader is copyright (C) 1999 Philip Bister.  All rights reserved.  Reverse engineering/translation is prohibited.

Unsupported freeware.
This program is released as unsupported freeware.  The author regrets that he cannot enter into correspondence and therefore a contact address is not given.

Distribution.
This version is freeware and may be distributed with Calendar Notes v2.x, by any means, eg. floppy disk, CD ROM, SSD.

Disclaimer.
This software is supplied 'as is'.  Every effort has been made to ensure that the application is free from errors.  However, no software author can guarantee it.  The author takes no responsibility as to the suitability of this products intended purpose, or for the accuracy of the data contained within it, or for any consequences which may occur as a result of a malfunction of this software.
You must use this software at your own risk.

