
        BACKUP & RESTORE
        ÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿ
    These are two programs to help you transfer files across a
Serial Link to a Series 3a.
    They are not complicated, but explaining exactly when you'll
find them useful might be. And I'm no good at writing manuals.
Still, here goes:


        BACKUP
        ÿÿÿÿÿÿ
    If you're the proud owner of a IBM PC or compatible, Macintosh
or Archimedes, and a Psion Serial Link, you will be able to use the
supplied software to treat your PC's (or whatever) drive(s) as Psion
drives. Transferring files is then as simple as using the Series
3a's `copy' function. Easy.
    But what if, like me, you have another type of computer? In my
case it's an Atari STE, but it could be an Amiga, or any other that
has a serial (modem) port. You have to use the Series 3a `Comms'
application to send files one at a time using one of the standard
protocols: Xmodem, Ymodem or any variations thereof. You also need a
program at the other end, to respond to the protocol. Tedious work,
especially if you're doing a backup and need to transfer umpteen
files. I have extra RAM in my Series 3a, and sending 3 megabytes
file-by-file is no fun at all!
    So: here's a program to make the Psion end of the operation
easier. BACKUP will scan through the drives you specify, listing all
the files it finds, and create a `script' file. This can then be
translated, and executed by the `Comms' application, to send all the
files, one after another, automatically. If you have a file transfer
program at the other end that will receive files one after another,
you can go away for a well-earned cup of tea or coffee, while your
computers chug away merrily!


        FEATURES
        ÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿ
    You can specify which of your Series 3a drive(s) (M, A and/or B)
are to be backed up.

    You can specify the name of the script file to be created (the
default is \SCR\BACKUP.SCR).

    You can set the serial port parameters: baud rate, parity, byte
length, flow control, and file transfer protocol.

    You can also write out a list file for use with the RESTORE
program (see below).

    To make backups easier, BACKUP can list only those files which
have altered since the last backup.
    It makes use of the MS-DOS `archive' file attribute. This is set
whenever a file is created or written to, but otherwise ignored.
    There are two options in BACKUP to control this: `only changed'
will list only those files with the archive bit set, and `reset
changed' resets the archive bit on those files, so they won't be
listed next time. (Take care when using the second option, as if you
make a mistake, you can't re-run BACKUP to get the same list of
files.)

        USING BACKUP
        ÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿ
    The on-screen buttons are toggled by pressing their initial
letter: they are activated when the `light' next to each turns
black, and the button appears depressed.  The other options are
accessed by menu.
    Once you have set up the options you require, press ENTER or
Psion-G to start scanning and creating the script, or ESCAPE or
Psion-X to quit.

    To transfer the files, translate the script file in the `Script'
application, and execute the result in the `Comms' application (both
of which come with the serial link).



        RESTORE
        ÿÿÿÿÿÿÿ
    BACKUP is for backing up files from your Series 3a to another
computer. What about restoring files? Transferring them in the other
direction is not so easy. I haven't yet found an Atari program which
will send many files in one go, and so I have to send them one by
one, by hand. But what happens at the Psion end? If you're using the
Ymodem protocol, the filename is sent along with the file, so the
Series 3a knows what to call the files it's receiving. But it
doesn't know where to put them. So ... (blare of trumpets) ...
here's RESTORE. Using the file list created (optionally) by BACKUP,
it recreates all the directories and subdirectories, and moves all
the files to their rightful places.
    In the dialog box, specify the drive where all the files to be
restored are (they should all be in the root or top-level
directory), and the name of the list file created by BACKUP, and
press ENTER to restore, or ESCAPE to quit.


        MORE INFORMATION
        ÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿ
    BACKUP and RESTORE were written by me for my own use - I was so
fed up with transferring files by hand. I hope they're of use to at
least someone out there!
    If you have any comments, you'd like alterations made, or have
any complaints, or even tokens of appreciation (well, I can hope,
can't I?), please contact me:

            Andrew Giddings

            71 Tyrone Road
            Thorpe Bay
            Essex  SS1 3HD
            ENGLAND

            081 - 534 5544 x2185 (daytime)

            0702 - 585228 (evening and weekend)


    Although I'm happy with how these programs work, I'm afraid I
can take no responsibility for any problems you may have.  If your
Psion forgets everything you've ever told it, or starts thinking
it's a cabbage, please don't complain to me!

    This program is freeware: please distribute it freely to your
friends, BBSs etc. The only restrictions are that this text file and
the two programs are kept together, and that no alterations are
made.



    Psion, Series 3a, IBM, Atari, Archimedes and Macintosh are
probably registered trademarks.

    Finally, thanks to Steve Litchfield for 3-Lib!


(c) 1994 UK  Andrew Giddings.
