A few words about "Mille Bornes v1.0"
July '96

What's "Mille Bornes v1.0"?
---------------------
Mille Bornes is a French cards game edited by Dujardin International, and
Parker Brothers.
The Psion version is quite close to the original, is designed to run on
Psion Serie 3a. That's a 1 player game, the Psion being the opponent.
You'll need the Serial link & appropriate software to transfer the game
onto your Psion.

Required installation skills
----------------------------
Sorry, I have provided no scripts or anything, you'll have to do that
yourself:

You can install the game from an external Flash or Ram SSD. It will NOT
attempt to write on that drive (hopefully).

Create a directory called mbornes in \APP

Those files should go in your freshly created \APP\MBORNES directory:

    intro.pic **
    cartes.pic
    claps.wve **
    hihi.wve **
    deal.wve 
    fire.wve *
    oo.wve *
    pouic1.wve *
    pope.wve 
    whiz.wve *

Files with no star MUST be present.
Files with 1 star are not necessary though they make the game more pleasant.
Files with 2 stars are not necessary, just there for more fun.
The entire distribution takes a lot of memory, so you may not want to include
everything...

This file should go in your \APP directory:
   mbornes.opa

Then install using the standard Psion-I hotkey; choose mbornes.opa

Note that a file called mbprefs.ini will be automatically created while
playing, in the internal \OPD directory.

Things you outta know
---------------------
There's an internal help to learn to rules of the game. Just press the Help
key during a game.
This not an exact clone of the original game. I have not kept the 700 then
1000 bornes option, nor followed the exact rules for the end of each match
(match stops as soon as the dealing deck is empty)
The game offers 3 levels of difficulty. It is very simple to beat it with
level 'easy'. Things get harder with level 'normal': it actually counts
the played cards, and tries to guess what's in your hand. Level 'cheater'...
erm, is rather difficult to beat as dealt cards are in favour of the Psion!

The game takes a lot of memory while running... Please get sure that you
have about 100k of free memory on the internal drive before lanuching a
game. Sorry, I have not optimised it.

Money talks
-----------
That's Freeware. That means you can use it as much as you can without
having to pay me anything. However, I keep the copyright on the source
code, the graphics and the sounds. Please do not modify it without telling
me before. Please to not decompile it using RevTran or whatever utility
you'd have. Anyway, the main procedure will put RevTran v4.2 in trouble...
You'd better politely ask for the source code!

Lurking insects
---------------
There are some bugs, as I have yet to discover the subtilities of those
Psion beasties... I've had reports of computer playing twice (apart from
the regular replay after a coup-fourr‚), and reports of computer being delt
twice the same coup-fourr‚. I've have not experienced this myself nor been
able to find where the problem lies.
Errors handling is very limited, so please respect the installation
directories names or your Psion will scream in anger.
Please report me any nasty behaviour via Email.
"Mille Bornes v1.0" requires a 480x160 (or better) screen to run. That means
no chance for Serie 3 or Workabout owners to run it...

Legal stuff to be aware of
--------------------------
Feel free to pass this software to anybody you know.
Inclusion in any software library, on floppy, CDRom, electronically etc.
is very welcome as far as you do not alter the archive.
If you're intending to insert Mille Bornes v1.0 in a library (on floppy,
CDRom etc), please drop me a quick Email (I won't ask for a freebie,
don't worry!)
Please do not charge for more than the usual media & postage fees.

Warranty
--------
No warranties whatsoever. Use at your own risk.

To get in touch
---------------
Email:
100325.637@compuserve.com or fbotton@cix.compulink.co.uk

Snail mail:
Frederic Botton
55, boulevard Barbes
F-75018 Paris
France

Web place: http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/FBotton/psion.htm
           http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/FBotton/psiontxt.htm (text only)

Final word
----------
I hope this game will please you! If you're not familiar with it, give it
a few tries before feeding your trashcan. 

Do buy the original game and play it with a few friends. That will help you
doing something else than toying with electronic stuff!

Fred.
