1.  Quickstart for experts.
2.  More help for the uninitiated.
3.  The future.
3a. I'm poor, please pay me.


1.
Put the upoker.opa in your app directory on any drive.

Create a directory called upoker below the app directory. Put all the other
files in there.

Install from the system screen.

Have fun, develop a gambling compulsion, but pay me first.


2.
If you have got as far as this your doing well. You have probably
already had to download, un-uuencode, unzip and then read this.
On your Psion3a make sure you have a directory called app. To do
this press the system button to get the system screen. then press
TAB to get a list of directories. If you don't see it press the
up arrow key until you get to the top of the list. 

If it's still not in view:
		move the highlight right to the very top of the screen
		so that it's on the \ in the middle. Press MENU, press
		the right arrow key, press enter. Type in APP and press
		enter. Now start again from 2.

If you can now see the APP directory, place the highlight on it and
press MENU, press the right arrow key, press enter. Type in UPOKER and
press enter.

If you're using Psiwin you can simply drag and drop the
Upoker.opa into the app directory and all the other files into the
UPOKER directory.

If you have got the files in place, press PSION and I to install. If
you don't see the name Upoker use the left right arrow keys look for it.
If you have SSDs(rampacks) installed, select them by pressing the down
arrow key and then left/right to search them. If you find Upoker press
enter to install.

A new icon will appear on the system screen. Put the highlight on this
and press enter. The game will begin if the files are in place.

3.
I will continue to develop Ultimate Poker as long as the trickle of
registrations continues. Since release I have added Psion compatible
help, autosave/load, named players, improved AIs.

Iintend adding stud poker as an option.

The AIs will eventually have mannerisms and facial movement dependent
on game play.

3a.(Kleenex required, Parental Warning. Don't read the next
paragraph if you are of a sensitive disposition.)

   O
  /\/
 _\   U

I'm poor. I live in a caravan(trailer if your in USA), have a wife,
parrot, 6 year old Citroen and 26 year old BSA Bantam to support
(not necessarily in that order of priority). I'm not going to
get rich writing games for the Psion but at my level of financial
existence every bit helps.

This is shareware. If you like the game and think it's worth it,
please pay me. The registered game has the following benefits:

	Automatic save and load game.
    Improved AIs, 3 levels of play.
	Automatic option settings save.
	More money to start with.
	No naggy start screen/jingle. 
	No winnings limiting.(no robbers)
	Fast deal option.
	Free access to future upgrades.
	And of course the priceless feel good factor 
	of helping a struggling young writer.

You will be helping in the development of this and other projects such
as Risky, a war game, 3D Moonlander, a 3D moonlander and Parrot, a
pet parrot that lives in your Psion.

In UK send a cheque for UKP8.99 or $15 or your local currency cash
equivalent to:
I M Pinkard, 1a Millstone Park, Penyffordd, Chester CH4 0JF, UK.
If you have a Compuserve account GO SWREG 12878 ($15)

If you don't like this game thanks for trying it. Email me if you have
ideas for improvement, or games that you would like to play on your
Psion.

Thanks in anticipation of you support. Thanks very much to you good
people who've registered.

Lastly and mostly, thanks to
Phil Spencer (author of the highly acclaimed and successful TimeMan)
for much useful help and advice.
Dave Evans for his criticism (now developing 3a GPS Speak)
Eberhard Rompf, for patience with the prelaunch version, and
for registering < 4 hours after SWREG availability.
Dennis Lefebvre for rapid and thorough testing of the Siena version.
Cecilia for sharing the pain and joy of programming.
Steve Litchfield's useful web pages and services.

Ian Pinkard.
email  106255,1266@compuserve.com

