SHOOTING
========

By M.J.Horsnell (c) 1996 for PHPS
---------------------------------

Shooting is a game of skill for the Psion 3a. The aim is to get as high a
score as possible on targets using realistic rifle sights. 

Three rifles are available, all from the British Army:

* The No.8 .22 rifle (L81A1) fitted with iron sights
* The Cadet GP rifle (L98A1) fitted with different iron sights
* The SA80 rifle (L85A1) fitted with the optical SUSAT sight

You can also shoot on two different types of target. One is a match target,
a 5 target sheet of A4 with a "sighter" - a practice target, and the other
is a Fig. 11 target, as used by the Army, which is a picture of a man
running towards you.

Installing
----------

Copy all the .PIC files included into \OPD in the internal disk, and copy
the .OPA file into \APP. Install the game onto the system screen using
the Psion-I keypress.

Instructions
------------

When first running the game you will get asked whether you want moving
or still targets. Moving targets move randomly and are hard to hit. Still
targets are good for beginners to practice on!

Then you will be asked for the accuracy level. High accuracy means that the
"rifle sights" on the screen will move, simulating human "wobble" that
happens when you use a rifle! Low accuracy means the sights will not wobble,
again making it easier for beginners.

After this you will be asked which rifle to use. The GP L98A1 and 22 L81A1
differ only in their sight systems in the game. The SA80 can fire on the
Fig. 11 target and in automatic mode (continues firing if you hold down the
fire key).

If you select the GP or 22, you will be taken to the "match target" screen. 

If you select the SA80, you will be asked if you want to use automatic fire
or not. Automatic is more fun :-). Then you will be asked if you wish to use
the Fig. 11 target, which is the man running towards you. If you say no you
will use the match target.

After these prompts you will go to the range. To move the sights, use the
arrow keys, and to fire press the diamond key. Hold down Psion to move
the sights quickly.

"Match target" - Fire first on the single target on the left, two shots, and
then fire two shots on the top left target of the group of five, then move 
to the top middle target and shoot two on that. Then shoot on the top right,
followed by the bottom left, and then the bottom right. If you're finding you
are getting 0 for a target when the sights are clearly in the "points", check
that you are firing on the right target!!

"Fig. 11 target" - just shoot at the man, wherever you want to shoot :-)

At the end, after you have fired 12 shots, you will get a score out of 100.

Contacting the author
---------------------

The author can be reached at matt@pmbbs.demon.co.uk.

Shooting is freeware, but copyright is retained by the author and
modifications must not be distributed! Legal actions will be taken against
those who break the law!

This product comes from PHPS (Portwin/Horsnell Programming Services) - we 
have released lots of good software. For a full catalogue, either send a
blank e-mail to phps.cat@pmbbs.demon.co.uk and one will be returned by e-mail
within two or three days. You could also FREQ it from 2:252/337, using the
magic name PHPSCAT.TXT.

Both of us at PHPS hope you like this game!


