QuickView 5 for Psion Series 5 and Geofox One.     Version 1.05

QV5 is a simple program which I wrote in order to explore various systems
for my 3T file manager application. The general idea was to minimise messing
about with windows, which can be a slow process in OPL32.

QV5 became quite a useful tool in its own right, especially after an OPL
session which generally leaves me with loads of bits of trial code that are
no longer required. With QV5 I can trawl through my project folders and
view and delete files as required.

There are two windows. On the left is the file window, where you can move
through the various folders in memory, the ROM, and CF disks. On the right
is the viewer window, where the contents of files may be examined.

The file window uses the following keys:

	Up and Down Arrows move through the files in the current folder.
	(Folders are shown with the trailing backslash "\", except when the name
	is too long.)

	Page Up and Down also have the usual functions on the file list.

	Esc moves back to the previous folder. If you are in the root folder, you
	will see the "Change Disk" dialog. Here you may press a letter key or Esc. 

	Enter has several functions. If a folder is highlighted, QV5 moves to that
	folder. If <==Parent==> is highlighted, QV5 moves back to the previous
	folder. If a file is highlighted, the file is displayed.

	Any letter or number key moves the highlight to the next file or folder
	beginning with that letter or number. At present this operates only on the
	current page.

	Del will delete the highlighted file or folder (and contents).

The viewer window uses just two keys:

	Right Arrow moves to the next page (or bitmap),
	Left Arrow moves back a page (or bitmap).

In addition, there are several keys which operate whether or not a file is
being viewed:

	Ctrl-E is the exit or quit key.
	Ctrl-K allows setup of QV5 properties.
	Ctrl-A selects the Ascii viewer.
	Ctrl-B selects the binary (hexadecimal) viewer.
	Ctrl-T selects the text viewer.
	Ctrl-O selects the OPL32 viewer.
	Ctrl-V displays the current bitmap (.MBM) file.
	Ctrl-Q toggles the view mode.
	Ctrl-I toggles 'Intelligent' mode.
	Ctrl-Shift-A shows the "About" details.
	Ctrl-Shift-H shows the help screen.

View modes.

There are two view modes. The default is "Autoview Off", where you have to
press Enter (or Right Arrow) to view a file. This allows you to quickly move
through the file list. The alternative, "Autoview On" views each file as it
is highlighted, without having to press Enter.

The viewers.

Ascii view shows all the printing characters on the screen. Those which do
not print have been replaced with a dot. You can move forwards and backwards
through the file with the Right and Left Arrow keys. All files, including
binary files, may be viewed this way.

Binary (Hex) view works like the latter view, except that the file offset,
byte value (both hexadecimal), and the corresponding Ascii character are
shown. You can move up and down the file as with Ascii view.

Text view offers a clipped view of text files. Here the layout is preserved,
but the lines are clipped after about 60 characters. Also you cannot move
backwards through a file, if you press Left Arrow you are moved back to the
start of the file.

OPL view enables an OPL32 source file to be displayed, with the header and
footer removed, and the end-of-lines insered, i.e. just as in the OPL 
editor. You can move up and down the file with the Right and Left Arrow 
keys, but the latter works only up to page 500 (If this causes problems,
let me know, I can change this if required).
This viewer will work only on valid OPL source and header files.

There is also an independant bitmap viewer. Just press Ctrl-V when an .MBM
file is highlighted. Only files containing the correct UIDs will be displayed.
Note that files will be displayed in 4 colour mode only. Left and right
arrow keys move between the images in a multi-bitmap file. If you move to
an invalid bitmap in an MBM file, the bitmap display is closed.
This viewer will only work on valid EPOC32 bitmaps.

You may change viewers at any time. If a file is being viewed, it will be
closed first. If autoview is on, the file will then open in the new viewer.
With autoview off, the file will open when you press Enter.
You can move between files and folders even if a file is being displayed.

Intelligent mode.

Pressing Ctrl-I toggles Intelligent mode. This mode will set display mode
to OPL when viewing OPL32 files, bitmap for bitmap files, text mode
for text files, and Ascii mode for other files.

Since text files have no UID, QV5 makes a guess here, and some other non-
UID coded files will also display in text mode.

Properties.

Press Ctrl-K and a small dialog will appear. This allows you to change
the viewer type, intelligent mode, and view mode. 

Menu.

QV5 now has a menu.

Installation.

*** If you have an earlier version of QV5 installed, make sure it is not
running, then delete C:\System\Apps\QV5\QV5.ini.

Simply create a folder \system\apps\QV5 and copy QV5.app and QV5.aif into it.
QV5 now requires Sysinfo1.opx by Otfried Cheong. If you do not have this
installed, I have included it in the zip file. You will need to make a new
folder c:\System\Opx\ and copy Sysinfo1.opx into it.

*** If you already have Sysinfo1.opx installed, make sure that you do not
overwrite it with an earlier version of the file. You can usually tell
this by comparing the file date stamp. It is also quite likely that
the most recent file is the largest. So if you have a later version of 
Sysinfo1.opx already installed to your Series 5, there is no need to copy
this version to your machine.

Limitations.

QV5 can cope with folders containing up to 400 files only.
The maximum file name length is 100 characters, not including the path
name, which can be up to 255 characters. This should not cause problems
if QV5 encounters a longer filename, however.

Starting from a command line.

QV5 may be launced from another application, and will accept a command
line containing the name of the folder you wish to initially display.
This folder name must be terminated with a backslash, e.g. C:\Documents\

Copyright.

QV5 is copyright Roger Muggleton 1997-1998, and is released as freeware.
Sysram1.opx is Copyright Otfried Cheong/RMR Software.

Bug reports, etc.

QV5 is released as freeware. I disclaim all responsibility for any ill
effects on your Psion Series 5 or Geofox. There are bound to be bugs in my 
code, hopefully these are unlikely to have any serious effects on your files.
Remember to back up your Psion frequently, as it is easy to delete a wanted
file inadvertantly, even from the system screen.


Changes since version 1.00

Multi-image bitmap support added.
OPL file viewer.
Current folder displayed.
File size display on Ascii, binary, and OPL viewers.
Deletes folders.
Saves settings to an ini file.

Changes since version 1.01

Intelligent mode added.
Bitmap viewer action changed.
Settings saved only when changed.

Changes since version 1.02

Geofox One supported.
Viewers modified for Geofox 640*320 screen.
Sort now case-insensitive.
Can be driven to a named folder by command line.

Changes since version 1.03

QV5 should no longer be upset if you send it to the background, and delete
the folder QV5 was displaying! It should refresh to the next layer down.
QV5 now uses Sysinfo1.opx for file/folder checking. My thanks to 
Otfried Cheong for writing this useful OPX. 
I have added a menu.

Changes since version 1.04

The menu has been reorganised, and some shortcuts changed to Psion standards.
The menu can now be activated with the pen.
QV5 now uses less memory when running in the background.

Roger Muggleton, hzk@cix.co.uk
16th May, 1998

