
                          PT - Packet Terminal

Forward

These programs are copyright

Rovoreed Limited,
New House Cottage,
Cublington,
Madley
Hereford
HR2 9NX

This suite of software is NOT Public Domain, neither are they Freeware or
Shareware.

Rovoreed Limited retains full and exclusive rights to the distribution of
this suite of  programs. Too many  of our "free"  programs have ended  up
being sold or  distributed on  CD-ROM to make  profit for  third-parties,
that we have been forced to build into this suite of programs  mechanisms
to cripple to software remotely.

Rovoreed Limited  reserves  the right  to  cripple the  software  without
warning.

Should we  ever  be forced  to  cripple the  software,  then no  data  or
programs will  erased  from your  Series  3 computer.  A  message  header
received from  your  local  BBS  will condition  the  software  into  not
starting up. You will be  notified of this fact,  and you are advised  to
log on to your local BBS and read any messages addressed to PT@WWW for an
explanation. Hopefully we won't have to do it.

Rovoreed Limited regrets that  it will not provide  any support for  this
product. These programs are  released to fullfill  a specific need.  They
should not be  construed as being  of the standard  of software  normally
produced by Rovoreed Limited. Specifically, no formal program testing  or
program proving has been carried out on this software.


Introduction

Occassionally I  have seen  requests coming  over the  packet network  on
information or help  regarding the availability  of packet terminals  and
the Psion Series 3. This is my response to those requests.

The programs originally evolved out of several test programs written  for
the Psion Series  3 range  of computers  to learn  the available  library
routines, and to try to put some meaning behind the words in the Software
Developement Kit. With this background, it can be seen that there was  no
regular  design,  the   programs  just  evolved,   and  there  are   some
shortcomings because of it. For example, it is not possible to search for
text in a message. However I use them to handle all my packet traffic, so
I can quite honestly say I find them useful.

The prorams as  supplied will  run on  both the Series  3 &  3a range  of
computers. The programs will  all adapt to the  machine they are  running
on. Extra  facilities provided  on  the Series  3a  are text  zoom,  and,
because of the extra resolution, it is possible to display message  sizes
when in header mode of the message editor..

What is does

In some  respects the  programs operate  in a  similar manner  to TPK  by
G‚rard Regnard (F1EBN). They can be used by Radio Amateurs to listen  out
for interesting  messages on  the packet  network, and  to download  them
automatically into a Psion Series 3.

The programs provide the following features.
   1) solicit FBB beacons from your nominated host.
   2) listen out for  text strings you  have specified and  automatically
     mark these messages for downloading from your host.
   3) at 45 minute intervals automatically download any marked  messages,
     and upload any messages  for onward transmission.  You can force  an
     immediate connection if you don't wish to wait the 45 minutes.
   4) allow you to enter private  messages or bulletins for uploading  to
     your host.
   5) allow you to reply to any messages received.
   6) operates asychronously, in  that it is possible  to read a  message
     and reply to it whilst the program continue to communicate with your
     host.
   7) automatically  delete private  mail from  your host  that has  been
     downloaded.
   8) Allow send and receive of 7+ files.
   9) Link/Paste  architecture  is supported.  This  means that  you  can
     'Bring' from PT into other applications and also 'Bring' from  other
     applications into PT.

What it does not  do that TPK  does, is maintain a  log, neither does  it
compress the messages before transmission, nor does it request compressed
mail from the host.  There is definately no  YAPP implemented. There  are
probably other things that PT doesn't do either.

Installation

You should have the following files:-

   PT.APP
   PTINIDAT.IMG
   PTINITNC.IMG
   PTDBMGR.IMG
   PTMSG.IMG
   PTRENUM.IMG
   PT_7PLUS.IMG
   PT_TNC.TXT
   PT_RS232.TXT
   PT.TXT (this file)

PT.APP is the main control program. It handles all communication with the
TNC, and running of the other programs in the suite.

PTINIDAT.IMG is a small program that only runs when PT is started up.  It
locates the database files that may  have been created on previous  runs,
and if it  can't find any  then it creates  some empty ones  on the  same
device as the program  was run from.  This simple task  was written as  a
separate program to  reduce memory requirements.  The database is  looked
for in the following order, the drive  the programs are run from, M:,  A:
and then B:. The program ignores default drive settings.

PTINITNC.IMG runs at startup and in  response to the 'Reset TNC'  command
in PT. Unsuprisingly then,  it's job is  to reset the  TNC. It starts  by
sampling the RS232 line at the following speeds, 9600, 4800, 2400,  1200,
300 and 110 baud. If  it detects a 'cmd:' prompt  at one of those  speeds
then that is the speed the RS232 link  is set at. If no 'cmd:' prompt  is
detected,  then  it  starts  an  autobauding  procedure.  It  sends   '*'
characters - which  the PK232  uses as  an autobaud  character, and  then
tries to solicit a command prompt with a ^C. This autobaud feature can be
defeated, see below. After it gets  a 'cmd:' prompt, the contents of  the
file PT_TNC.TXT is sent to the  TNC followed by the date/time. This  file
should contain the commands necessary to initialise the TNC. The supplied
file is for the AEA PK232 without battery backup. This is the TNC I  use,
I don't know how  other TNCs' react  or other TNC  commands. If your  TNC
doesn't issue a 'cmd:' prompt, let me know and I'll try to sort something
out !

PTDBMGR.IMG is the database manager. It handles all I/O to the  database.
Other programs talk  to it to  get or send  information to the  database.
After you terminate PT, you may notice that PTDBMGR lingers under the IMG
Ghost icon for a few moments, it is tidying up the database, and doing  a
compress which can take some time with  a large database. It is for  this
reason that if you  exit PT and immediately  re-enter it, that some  file
errors (File in Use) occur.

PTMSG.IMG is the message reader and editor.  It is used to trawl all  the
heard message headers and  select messages for  reading. Replies and  new
messages for outbound transmission are  also created using this  program.
It can also be used to pack/unpack 7+ messages.

PTRENUM.IMG is a utility  program for renumbering your  copy of the  host
database. One day I woke up to find  my FBB host synching at 8390 when  I
thought it should be 120510. The Sysop had renumbered his msg base, and I
had to do the same, so this program was born.

PT_7PLUS.IMG is a version of 7+ by  Axel DG1BBQ modified by me to run  on
the Series 3. It can be installed as  an .APP in its' own right, or  used
to process inter-process requests.

PT_TNC.TXT is a plain text file that is sent to the TNC to initialise it.
See below.

PT_RS232.TXT is  a small  optional parameter  file that  can be  used  to
defeat PTINITNC autobaud. Basically, it tells PTINITNC what speed to use.
See the file contents for more help.

PT.TXT is this file. In versions of PT prior to 1.00, we also  supplied a
.WRD file that  you could  format  and print using the  Word application.
Unfortunately, this document is  now so large that it cannot be processed
by Word. This file is now the only printable documentation.

Installation procedure

The programs have to be installed in  the normal Psion  way. That is  the
file PT.APP should be  placed in the \APP\  directory, and all the  other
files  should  be  placed  a  subdirectory  called  PT  under  the  \APP\
directory, i.e. in \APP\PT\. All files  should reside on the same  drive.
Finally use  the Psion-I  command on  the system  screen to  install  the
program.

The database will be created on the same device as the programs when  the
program is initially run. If you want to keep the programs on Flash,  and
the database on  RAM, then  install the programs  on RAM,  run PT,  exit,
delete the programs from the RAM device and copy the programs to Flash.
I would strongly recommend installing the  suite on a RAM SSD  initially.
Although the programs are "Flash  friendly" the amount of traffic  coming
over the  amateur network  - currently  about 300  messages per  day  are
passing through my  local node; means  that you will  use up Flash  SSDs'
quickly, particularly if you download many.

Upgrade procedure

V0.10 to V0.11

Replace the old .IMG  and .APP files with  the new ones. PTDBMGR.IMG  has
not changed. No other files need changing or deleting.

V0.11 to V0.12

Replace the old .IMG  and .APP files with  the new ones. PTDBMGR.IMG  has
not changed.
The program no longer  uses transparent text mode  to handle the link  to
the host BBS. Some changes are  required to the file PT_TNC.TXT. For  the
PK232 you can  simply replace  your old  PT_TNC.TXT file  with the  newly
supplied one. If you don't use a PK232, then the new TNC commands which I
found necessary for this new method to work are located at the end of the
file.

V0.12 to V0.13

Replace PT.APP with the new version. No other programs have changed.

V0.13 to V0.14

Replace all programs.

V0.14 to V0.15

Replace all programs.

V0.15 to V1.00

Replace all programs.

Memory requirements

In normal use you should  have only two programs  running for 95% of  the
time. These  are PT  which is  the  main screen  & control  program,  and
PTDBMGR. PT requires about 6k of  memory. PTDBMGR starts off about at  6k
and grows depending on the number of messages you have on your system. As
a guide, 3 days of bulletins will grow the program to 10k.

PTMSG is the message editor and  reader. This again requires about 6k  to
run as a  minimum, but  will grow dynamically  for example  when text  is
loaded for reading.  There is a  limit of  4k on message  entry, but  the
reader is capable of loading a message as big as any downloaded from your
host provided you  have enough free  memory to hold  it. Extra memory  is
required in  addition to  what is  apparent from  the message  size.  The
system needs  extra memory  for formatting  the message.  Further  memory
appears to be  used by system  services. This  may not be  apparent on  a
Series 3 where  the standard  applications such  as Word  and Agenda  are
already running, but on a "quiet" machine system usage can grow by 10  to
15k. I presume this is .DBF buffering. I would advise therefore that  you
have at least 40k free memory  when you start. Therefore the basic  suite
should run an a 128k Series 3 which "out of the  box" has 45k free.

PTRENUM requires as much space again as you have used for your host  .DBF
file. If it runs out  of room during the  renumber operation, no harm  is
done, or data lost. It just doesn't do the job.

PT_7PLUS requires about 64k to run. This is because it is a "dirty  port"
from the  IBM PC  environment, and  has not  been modified  to any  great
extent to use the inbuilt  features of the Series 3.  It may not ever  be
possible to run this  program from within PT  on some machines. For  this
reason, PT_7PLUS can be installed  as an application and run  stand-alone
should you wish.

The TNC setup file

There are two files, one of which is optional.

PT_RS232.TXT  if  it  exists  inhibits  PT  from  autobauding.  The  file
specifies the baud rate your TNC  runs at. If you want autobauding,  then
delete this file, otherwise  it MUST exist in  the same directory as  all
the .IMG files. Some TNCs  don't like the way  PT autobauds. If your  TNC
has battery backup, and you know what speed it needs, then specify it  in
this file.

The TNC  configuration file  supplied (PT_TNC.TXT)  is for  an AEA  PK232
without battery backup. If you have a different TNC or use the PK232 with
battery backup, then you will probably have to edit this file. Each  line
is sent to the TNC. Lines starting with a ';' character are comments  and
are ignored, i.e. not sent to the TNC.

The general order of commands within the file is important. Flow  control
statements should come first.

Other than that, basic requirements by the software require,

   Eight bit, no parity, one stop bit
   RTS/CTS handshaking
   Echoing of commands disabled
   Header lines disabled
   Line feeds disabled

If you experience problems with getting  the TNC to initialise, then  try
setting the TNC to work at 2400  baud. After sampling the RS232 at  9600,
4800, 2400, 1200, 300 &  110 baud the link is  set back to 2400 to  force
autobauding, so  2400 is  taken  as a  last-ditch  attempt. If  it  still
doesn't work after this, then try using the PT_RS232.TXT file.

The database

At runtime a  sub-directory is created  from the root  called \PT\.  This
contains details of all messages in the database.

Two .DBF files are created containing the message header information. The
actual message text is held in separate .TXT files, one for each  message
in a subdirectory within \PT\.

A further subdirectory called \PT\ARRIVALS\ contains files extracted from
7+ messages.

Although it is possible  to switch between different  hosts, this is  not
advised.

The .DBF files cannot be accessed using the Data application.

The .TXT files are held  like they are to be  sent, or received from  the
host. That  is  lines  delimited  with  carriage  returns.  For  outbound
messages, PT will  automatically word-wrap  text at or  below colomn  72.
This is only mentioned because after  a message is entered, the only  way
to alter the text is either to delete the message and re-enter it, or  to
edit the .TXT file with the Word application. I've not tried this. On the
one occassion I wanted to do it, I did a bring of the message into  Word,
editted it there, deleted the original  message, and then did a bring  of
the message from Word into PT.

Configuration data, and your prefered setups  are saved in a file  called
PT.DBF. This file  must reside in  the same directory  as the various  PT
.IMG files. It will created initially when the program exits. Although is
it possible  to  look  at  the  contents  of  this  file  with  the  Data
application it is not advised to try altering anything. The data is  held
in binary strings. That is, the Data application will think the data is a
string and try  to display  it as such,  but the  string contains  binary
data, not always printable ASCII. The programs will behave  unpredictably
if you alter anything in this file.

7+

Yes, you too can now send/receive 7+ messages direct from/to your  Psion.
If you don't know  what 7+ is,  then I suggest you  read the separate  7+
manual.

The supplied version of  7+ can be run  stand-alone, or by  inter-process
request. When run with PT, it  is driven by inter-process requests,  but,
you may  not have  enough  room in  your  Series 3  for  this to  work  -
particularly if you have a 128k  model. For this reason, PT_7PLUS can  be
installed like any other application and run outside of PT. On the system
screen,   select   Psion-I.   At    the   file   prompt,   navigate    to
\APP\PT\PT_7PLUS.IMG by using the Tab and arrow keys. It does not  matter
that this application does not end in  .APP. The program can then be  run
just like any other Psion application.

The program will prompt for a file name. If this is left blank, then  the
help subsystem is called. This contains  a brief summary of the  commands
available, just like if you  were to run the  IBM PC version without  any
parameters.

If you wish to send a file in 7+ format, but the file is resident on your
PC then you will need to start PT without the Series 3 being connected to
your TNC. Instead, connect your Psion  to your PC. Get into the  outbound
mailbox, select  Psion  +,  and  choose the  drive  as  the  REM::  drive
containing the file to transmit, and choose the file by navigating to  it
using the TAB and arrow  keys. This assumes you  have a file server  like
MCLINK or SLINK running on your PC.

This file will be split up by 7+ and put in you outbound mail  directory.
The message titles are automatically  generated to contain the file  name
and part number.

It has always been possible to receive  7+ files with PT, but now it  can
unpack them  too.   In  the  header mode in the message editor, place the
cursor on a message header which you think is a 7+ file. You can normally
tell this from the title  of the message.  Hit  Psion -,  and the message
will checked for being a valid 7+ format file, and in  doing so, check to
ensure all the parts are  already  resident in the Series 3. If any parts
are missing you will be notified. If all the  parts are present, then the
original file is recreated from the individual  messages.  Unfortunately,
in this version of 7+ the original file date/timestamp is lost. The  file
will get the current date/time.

After the file has been recovered from the one or more messages, then the
option concerning whether to keep the individual parts is obeyed. I would
advise leaving this option  at  the default of delete. This option can be
found in the Set Preferences option on the main PT screen.

Runtime

One of the required items of data that you must supply is your call  sign
and that of your host. You must enter these before the program will start
up. Other items default to sensible values.

The programs will start up without a TNC being connected. A notifier will
be displayed and you get the  option of continuing or aborting. It  might
be useful to  continue if  you simply want  to access  a previously  read
message. i.e. you  are out and  about without your  radio and 3-Link  and
have a few spare moments to reply to your  mail,  or alternatively if you
wish to 7+ up a file resident on your PC.

Active programs

Screen displays

The screen images change depending on which program is in the foreground.
Normally this will be  PT itself, but  you can switch  to the inbound  or
outbound message reader.

PT - Packet Terminal

The main PT  screen show the  local time and  UTC in the  top right  hand
side. If the UTC  time appears wrong  then check that  you have set  your
'Home Town' correctly within the World or Time applications. You can also
check  that  the  daylight  savings  options  are  correct  in  the  Time
application.

The top left  of the screen  show your  callsign and the  amount of  free
space on the  device used for  the database. This  free space total  gets
updated at minute intervals.

There might optionally be an envelope type symbol shown next to the  UTC.
If it is there, then there is mail waiting on your host that has not been
read. This envelope is triggered by the MAIL> beacon your host generates.

The next line shows the number  of unread messages, and unsent  messages.
As the program is meant to  run unattended this gives a quick  indication
if any new messages have arrived.

The FBB beacon shows  the highest FBB beacon  heard from your host.  This
may not be the same as the  highest beacon saved to file. The reason  is,
some beacons simply represent messages passing through your host,  others
may be private messages, or, simply a beacon has been hit by QRM.

If the program is really out of sync with your host, then another  number
will appear alongside the FBB beacon. This number represents the  highest
message the system is "happy with". The term "happy with" is used because
again, it doesn't  actually represent  any quantifyable term.  It is  the
highest beacon number heard without breaks. If you watch this number,  it
may occassionaly stick, and a  re-sync. beacon will be transmitted.  When
the missing beacon is received, the number will leap, because  hopefully,
the program will have heard some of the subsequent beacons, and held them
internally. When the missing beacon is heard, it can save all  subsequent
ones to file.

The bottom 4  lines of  the screen (7  lines on  a Series 3a)  acts as  a
traffic window. If you  can hear packet traffic  on your transceiver  but
nothing appears in this area, then there is probably something wrong with
the TNC configuration. In this  circumstance  you will probably  also get
messages such as 'Serial Overflow' and 'Packet too large' appearing.

When it is deemed  time to connect  to the host -  either because the  45
minute timer has  elapsed, or  on command;  then a  popup window  appears
giving a guide to the state  of the connection. Because the programs  all
behave asynchronously,  there is  no  need to  wait for  the  dis-connect
before doing something else. You can read messages as they arrive, delete
stuff you no longer need, in fact  you can do anything, which is just  as
well because last night it was busy  in IO91VK and it took 26 minutes  to
send a 20 word message !! It's  almost as boring watching packet mail  as
it is watching batteries recharge.

PTMSG - Message Editor

The editor operates on  both the inbound messages  - those received  from
your host; and outbound messages - those that you wish to send.

The editor operates in  three modes. These are  header mode, reader  mode
and edit mode. When the program is first called, it is header mode.

Header mode  displays  all  the  headers within  either  the  inbound  or
outbound mailbox  and  the  initial display  is  different  depending  on
whether you are looking at inbound messages or outbound messages.

For inbound messages it should start by positioning you at the header  of
the first new message that has entered the system since you last  looked.
If there are no new messages, it  positions you at the last message.  For
outbound messages it simply positions on the last header in the system.

Other than that  the displays  are identical. Embelishments  are used  to
highlight the status of different headers. These are :-
   Italics indicate messages  that are  marked for  downloading from  the
     host, but have not yet been downloaded.
   Inverted indicates messages  that are  filed. i.e.  there actually  is
     some text for the message, and it can be read.
   Underlined indicates that the header  has been marked for keeping.  It
     will not be  purged off, but  it can still  be deleted, without  any
     warning if you  explicitly tell the  program to do  so. A 7+  unpack
     will not delete messages so marked.

You can navigate around with the up/down keys, the page up/down, the home
and end keys. There are other  commands for moving around, and they  will
be covered later.

Having found a filed message, then the  next logical step is to read  it.
To do this we enter  reader mode. Simply move  the cursor to the  message
and hit the 'Enter' key. If the message has not yet been downloaded,  you
get told, otherwise to message is loaded ready for reading.

The text of the message pops up, and it is possible to move around  using
the cursor movement keys. It is not possible to change the text. To  exit
reader mode  either  hit Psion-U,  or  Psion-X (or  equivalent  in  other
languages).
After having read a message you may wish to reply. For this we need  edit
mode. This mode can only be entered with the Psion-R (Reply), or  Psion-E
(Enter) commands. Full editting facilities are available. Exit edit  mode
either with the Psion-S (Save) or Psion-U (Revert) command.
7+ messages can be sent with Psion +, and unpacked using Psion -.

Utility programs

PTRENUM - Host message base renumber

PTRENUM is used to renumber your copy of the host database. In two  years
I have only needed to do this once.
If you discover your host is  outputting beacons with much lower  numbers
than you expect, then log  on to your host  manually, and check what  the
last message you have is now numbered. The difference (usually  negative)
is entered at the prompt.

This program can  be run  from under the  IMG icon  although the  program
should be kept with all the other PT .IMG files. Place the cursor on  the
.IMG icon and press  tab. Navigate to  the \APP\PT\ sub-directory  select
PTRENUM and hit enter.
The reason it is done  like this is that is  so the the program can  find
all the files it requires and update them accordingly.
The program cannot be run while PT is running.

The commands

The following gives  a desciption  of the  commands available  in PT  and
PTMSG. Help is available for most commands, but for those where it is not
available, then the command is  identical to the standard Psion  function
of the same name.
   Inbound mail  -  Loads  PTMSG  which  then  interrogates  the  inbound
     messages, i.e. those from your host.
   Outbound mail  -  Loads PTMSG  which  then interrogates  the  outbound
     messages, i.e. those you wish to transmit.
   Message numbers - allows you to reset your next bid, or to change  the
     highest FBB beacon  heard. It is  very unlikely that  you will  ever
     need to use this command. It is  provided so that you can reset  the
     message numbers to sensible  values if you  have been using  another
     offline reader,  for example  TPK or  you have  been offline  for  a
     while. If you think  you can get  a lot of  messages by setting  the
     last message  received from  to host  to a  low value  like 1,  then
     forget it. FBB restricts the number  of old message headers it  will
     broadcast, but it varies  from system to system,  so some will  give
     more than others.
   Purge messages - allows you to  recover some SSD space. The 'Keep  how
     many days' operates from  today. If today is  the 3rd, and you  only
     have messages for the 1st and 2nd, and you specify keep 2 days,  the
     purge will  delete all  messages  for the  1st,  i.e. it  will  keep
     messages for the 2nd & 3rd, even though there maybe no messages  for
     any of  those days.  It is  generally  a good  idea to  keep  UNREAD
     messages, since 7+ can wait several days for all parts to arrive.
   Reset TNC - resets the TNC by invoking PTINITNC. The TNC is reset when
     the program starts up.  Probably the only other  time you will  need
     this command is  if power  fails to  the TNC.  If the  TNC fails  to
     initialise, then  all operations  to the  TNC are  trapped, and  not
     executed, i.e. the  Connect or Synchronise  commands do nothing.  If
     the TNC does  not reset  for any  reason, then  a small  information
     message appears each time you explicitly access the TNC.
   Connect to host -  forces a connection to  the host, thereby  avoiding
     the 45 minute  wait to send  and receive messages.  A pop-up  window
     displays the current state of the connection. When sending messages,
     the screen tends  to stick at  a message with  100% complete,  don't
     worry about this, the TNC is usually busy talking to your host.
   Log - toggles on and off capture of all data sent and received to  the
     TNC. The  log file  is called  PT.LOG  and is  created in  the  same
     directory as the database files. Toggling on the log file will cause
     any old log file to be deleted, i.e. it does not append.
   Synchronise - sends  a re-synchronise request  to your host.  Normally
     you will not need to use this, since a re-sync request is sent  when
     the program starts and any  time that PT detects  it is out of  step
     with the host. Possibly the only time  you may wish to use it is  to
     check that your host is still up and running. If your host hears the
     resync request it should  respond within a  minute depending on  how
     busy it is.
   Set preferences -  You will  have seen  this option  before, when  you
     first ran the program. It is used to specify your call sign and that
     of your host.  Any subsequent change  will probably be  just to  the
     'listen for' text,  and to toggle  reception of bulletins.  Although
     you can receive private messages, the default on FBB is to not allow
     it. This has to be enabled on your host with the OR command. One new
     feature in FBB 5.15b is that private messages for users that do  not
     use your host are no longer broadcast as FBB beacons. This is to cut
     down on  the number  of  beacons that  FBB  transmits on  a  resynch
     request, so although you might request download of private messages,
     you might not get as many as  you think there are. The 'listen  for'
     can appear anywhere, so you can trap messages from certain users, or
     just topics.  Where you  wish to  trap more  than 1  item, e.g.  all
     messages to PSION and messages  from GB2RS, then separate the  items
     with commas, e.g. PSION,GB2RS
     7+ Parts tells PT what to  do with all the individual messages  that
     go up to make the complete 7+ file. Usually we would want to  delete
     the parts after the file has been recreated.
     Kill 7+ Metafile is used when an error is found in the 7+ file.  See
     the 7+ manual. Normally this is set to 'Yes' to delete the  metafile
     when an error occurs. These metafiles  can get big, and just use  up
     valuable space.
   Version - displays the software version.
   Exit - exits the program. You may notice PTDBMGR running under the IMG
     ghost icon for several  moments after exiting  the program, this  is
     simply the database manager tidying things  up now it knows that  it
     will get no more requests to service the database.

Not all of the following commands  are available at the same time  within
PTMSG

   Jump to  new  msgs  -  jumps to  the  latest  untouched  message.  Not
     available in the outbound mailbox. An untouched message is one  that
     the cursor hasn't visited. When entering the inbound mailbox you are
     immediately put at the first new message. You can scroll back up the
     list with the cursor keys, and then use this command to get back  to
     where you were. Alternatively, if you have touched the last  message
     header, then this command  will put the last  message at the top  of
     the screen, leaving the remainder of  the screen blank, so that  you
     can watch new messages arrive.
   Jump to msg no - If you know an explicit message number, then this  is
     the command to use to get to it quickly.
   Find unread msg -  If you come back  to PT after a  few hours, and  it
     says unread messages are available, then enter the inbound  mailbox,
     and use Psion-*. It will find the first (or next) unread message  in
     the system. A message  is recorded as being  read after the  message
     text has been loaded into the message reader with the Enter key.  It
     doesn't matter if you have not looked at all the text of a  message.
     If a message has been loaded into  the reader, it is deemed to  have
     been read. If you don't read the message, then hitting Psion-* again
     will find the next unread message. To find the first unread  message
     again, move the cursor to any message that is not an unread  message
     and hit Psion-*. Basically, if you are on an unread message  Psion-*
     will find you  the next unread  message, else it  will find you  the
     first one.
   Find - This command is used to search the message headers for specific
     text. It is possible to search  the Subject, From, To and At  fields
     for specific text,  in any  direction, with case  sensitivity on  or
     off.
     The text is treated as a substring, so entering 'A' in subject  will
     find all messages where 'A' appears anywhere in the subject.
     If no text is entered for a field, then that field will not be  used
     in the selection process.
     E.g. To search for a message from an EA8 station to EU, then set the
     'To' field to EU and the 'From'  field to EA8. The search will  only
     find message headers from EA8 stations to those at EU.
   Find again -  Basically works the  same as standard  Psion Find  again
     functions. It continues  to search  from the  current position,  and
     uses the same search criteria as Find.
   Mark for  download -  Messages marked  for download  are displayed  in
     italics. If a message header looks like it could be interesting, and
     you want to download it, or,  if the 'listen for' text has  detected
     something you know you don't want, then you can use this command  to
     toggle the marked for download status.
   Delete -  deletes the  message  header, and  any file  containing  the
     message text. Even  if a header  is marked keep  protected, then  it
     will be deleted. No confirm message is issued, it just does it.
   Keep - toggles  a message as  protected from automatic  delete by  the
     purge. Keep protected messages are underlined.
   Enter new msg -  Creates a message in the outbound mailbox. If you are
     in the inbound mailbox, the message is still created in the outbound
     mailbox. You enter a dialogue requesting the addressee and home BBS.
     These fields must be completed, after which you enter edit mode. See
     the command available below.
   Reply to message - is similar  to the 'Enter new message' above,  just
     that the addressee and subject fields are prefilled with data  taken
     from the message the cursor is pointing to.
   Resend message - is only available in the Outbound Mailbox.
   Send 7+ File - will  prompt you for an addressee  and a file. It  will
     then request PT_7PLUS to  encode the file and  put all the parts  in
     your Outbound Mailbox ready for transmission.
   Unpack 7+ File is used to manually rebuild a file from the constituent
     messages. If not all the parts have been downloaded into your Psion,
     then it will tell you which parts are missing. The generated file is
     output to  \PT\ARRIVALS\.  The  various constituent  parts  will  be
     deleted if you requested this in the Preferences menu option on  the
     main screen.
     It is also possible that some of the parts you received are corrupt.
     If this is the  case, then an error  report will be generated  ready
     for sending back to the original sender. You also have the option to
     save the metafile for error correction.  This option is also in  the
     Preferences menu option on the main screen.
   Header - When entering or  replying to a message,  you may wish to  go
     back to the dialogue that started  message entry, so that you  could
     change the subject or the private/bulletin status for example.  This
     command allows that. On exit, you  are back in the editor where  you
     left it.
   Insert text - Standard Psion insert.
   Copy text - Standard Psion copy.
   Bring - Standard Psion bring.
   Save - Saves  the message in  the outbox ready  for uploading to  your
     host.
   Revert - forgets the message you are entering.
   Set preferences  -  There are  two  options available  concerned  with
     loading the message text  into the reader.  These are, load  message
     routing, and use proportional text. These are by default, no and yes
     respectively. You may wish to view the route to see why the  message
     took so  long getting  to you,  or where  is has  been on  the  way.
     Frankly, after  you've seen  this  stuff more  than twice,  it  gets
     boring,  which  is  why  it  is  normally  set  to  not  load.   The
     proportional text is normally enabled  because it looks better,  but
     normal PCs  don't use  proportional text  and people  will send  you
     tables of data  that will  look "wonky" in  proportional text  mode.
     Therefore an option is provided to disable proportional text.
   Zoom - is only available on the Series 3a, and replicates the standard
     Psion zoom commands.
   Version - software version
   Exit - exits the inbound or outbound mailbox.

Going /P

This is not advisable. The program  is designed to run continually.  When
going portable, this implies that there  will be long gaps between  using
the program. When the program starts up, it will try to resync with  your
host. If you  have been  QRT for  a few days,  then you  will be  several
hundred or possible thousands of messages out of step with your host. The
program will try its' best to bring you up to date. However, the  beacons
FBB output are on all bands, so if you are on a relatively quiet 4m band,
the beacons you cause to be output are also splattering across 2m & 70cm.
You will become unpopular.
The best way I  can think of  overcoming this problem is  to use the  TNC
command XMITOK OFF, start the program up,  and wait for an FBB beacon  to
appear. Use the Psion-M command to reset the highest FBB beacon saved  to
this value, exit PT,  use the Comms application  to set XMITOK ON  again,
and re-enter PT. It is  a bit long winded, but  at least you won't get  a
stream of abuse.

Direct connect

You can't. If you want  to take direct control of  the TNC then you  must
exit PT and enter the Comms Application.
You will probably find that the TNC  will need a few commands sent to  it
before it is easily usable, e.g.
   ALFDISP ON
   ACRPACK OFF
   ECHO ON
These are the commands  for a PK232, if  you've got something  different,
then it's up  to you to  work it  out. It is  useful to have  these in  a
script file if you intend to direct connect a lot.

Problems

   UTC time is wrong. Check that you have correctly set your 'Home  City'
     in the World or Time applications.  If this is right then check  the
     Daylight Savings option.
   TNC not powered up. Some TNCs can be powered from the control voltages
     present in the RS232  lead. This is not  possible with the Series  3
     even if it is powered with a mains adaptor. You will have to get  an
     alternative power supply or TNC.
   TNC not responding at all. Try  using the Comms application. If  there
     is nothing at  all, then are  you aware  that both the  TNC and  the
     Series 3 are wired up  as DCE? You'll need  a null modem adaptor  to
     overcome this problem.
   You need to digipeat to your host but can't see how to. The reason is,
     you can't. It has to be a single hop.
   No traffic appears, and you get  Serial Overrun messages. The link  to
     the TNC has reset to the wrong  speed. Use Psion-R to reset the  TNC
     again.
   You can't get it to work and want help. You could try asking me but  I
     don't promise anything. If  I think you've found  a bug, I may  have
     already fixed it. These programs are supplied FREE OF CHARGE &  it's
     not worth my time to be continually messing with the code.

The future

The following is simply some rough thoughts on what (if any) improvements
that will be made to these programs  over the coming months. They do  not
indicate any intention to do them though.
The program is not language specific. In common with other Psion Series 3
products, the program can  potentially support, English, French,  German,
Spanish, Italian, Swedish,  Danish, Norwegian,  Finnish, American,  Swiss
(French),  Swiss  (German),  Portuguese,  Turkish,  Icelandic,   Russian,
Hungarian, Dutch, Belgian Flemish, Australian, New Zealand, Austrian  and
Belgian French. If someone desparately needs a foriegn language version I
can probably work something out. No  promises though, and you'll have  to
do the translation yourself.
Initial experiments with compressing mail indicates that the (de)compress
program is  likely  to be  about  80k on  its  own. Adding  to  that  the
recommended 40k gives far more free  memory than most Series 3  computers
have available  at runtime.  It may  be possible  to reduce  this  memory
requirement.
It is unlikely that a  log will ever be maintained  like TPK does. I  can
see little or no point as the TPK log does not satisfy UK licensing.
Text search within the editor, in the body text of messages.
Better manual.
Use the TNC host mode.
Handle multiple sessions.
PMS.

Known Bugs

File in use error  on program startup -  caused by PTDBMGR still  running
after exiting from the program moments earlier.
Switching hosts causes saved FBB beacon to become confused. There's  only
one saved beacon number. Answer - don't switch hosts.

Modification History

V0.10 released 19th Dec 1993

Disable reset of TNC while connected.
When replying to mail, don't RE: RE: RE:... One is enough !
Fixed problem when multiple databases exist. Problem in PT_CONN.C  saving
messages to path in  DatCommandPtr, and not the  path found by  PTINIDAT.
Also PTINIDAT searched in order M:, A:, B:, Installed drive. This is  not
the order the documentation said. We now do what the documentation says.
Changes for FBB 5.15b. Mail is now sent with S%C %S @ %S. Note the  extra
spaces around  the @.  This is  downward compatible  with FBB  5.15.  Not
tested on other versions.
PTINITNC now checks  at 9600,4800,2400,1200,300,110  baud before  forcing
autobaud. This seems far more reliable than previous methods.

V0.11 released 9th Jan 1994 incorporates all the above fixes.

Changed the way the program detects end of message.
Not sure changes  to PTMSG.IMG  in V0.11  were actually  included in  the
released .ZIP. There was a mixup with the latest source.
Don't use transparent mode, because  we seem to miss disconnect  messages
from the host if the host times out and we aren't expecting it.
Messages for sub-nodes are now sent to the host.
If a download  aborted, then  the message file  was left  open. The  next
attempt to download  put up a  notifier 'File in  Use'. This problem  has
only become apparent now  that we recover gracefully  from a TIME OUT  at
the host end, and never manifested itself when in transparent text mode.

V0.12 released 17th Jan 1994 incorporates all the above fixes.

Removed extraneous CTRL-Z at end of message input. Stops the menus  being
output more then once on a message send. Saves wasteing time.
Now that FBB5.15b  doesn't output  "P" msgs, when  we start  up, our  FBB
beacon will drop back to the last held on file, not the last heard.  This
can be as much  as 40 or 50  headers, and is a  waste of bandwidth.  Save
last heard as type "F" in PT.DBF

V0.13 released 9th Feb 1994 incorporates all the above fixes.

Rebuild with SDK version 2.
Added new parameter file PT_RS232.TXT which holds baud rate. If this file
exists then PTINITNC doesn't autobaud.

V0.14 released 21st Mar 1994 incorporates all the above fixes.

Improved link/paste server.  Apparently it  was possible  to hang  system
apps,  I  never  experienced  this  problem,  but  incorporated  mods  as
suggested by Psion.
Added search function.
Renumber utility added.
Envelope type graphic to show mail waiting on the host. Shows bug in  FBB
that sometimes keeps private mail for us, and doesn't beacon it.
Only write unique messages to the  database. Fixes bug where we had  msgs
repeated down the screen in the msg reader.
Search added.
Added 3a Icon and the main program, PT, now runs in dual mode
If a msg was entered, and the file is then replaced by another file,  the
msg lengths became confused and the transmit %age would not end at 100%

V0.15 released 31st May 1994 incorporates all the above fixes.

If TNC not connected then allow machine to time out/power down.
PTMSG now runs in dual mode and Zoom option added.
Fixed bug where if reading a message and toggled status window,  then the
display refreshed to the header list.
Bug fix. When entering a msg,  and the title was the max number of chars,
it said must fill to and at.
Make  menus  more dynamic.  Stops saying 'Prohibited in ...  mode'.  User
doesn't get the option in PTMSG & PT says Log On/Log Off.
Added 'Resend' option.
Send a DAYTIME command to the TNC after setup. If PT_TNC.TXT contained  a
RESTART it was cleared.
7+ encode/decode added.
Timer on input  buffer. Don't have to  wait for new packet before display
the currently held one.
Stop extraneous UNPROTO transmissions.
Use background formatting in message editor.
Bug Fix.  If downloaded a message already marked as unread, it bumped the
unread count again.

V1.00 released 16th September 1994 incorporates all the above fixes.

If the default drive is not where the message base is, then 7+ fell over
complaining about the lack of a directory, or file.
Increase size of @ field in message input to allow for explicit addressing.
Bug fix in send 7+ file. The file should be sent roughly equal parts of
file size/4000. For a file just over 65k i.e. 79k the calculation gave a
truncated figure for the 79k i.e. 14k divided that by 4000 to arrive at 3
parts, so the file was split into 4 parts of about 20k.
SSIDs allowed.
Speed up the database manager. Now far more responsive while purging - use
p_getosd to check if client waiting, and if there is, serve the client.

V1.01 released 8th December 1994 incorporates all the above fixes.

If a new msg header arrives in PT when the user is reading a msg with
PTMSG then when the user finishes reading, they could not get to the new 
message header until yet another new message header arrived. i.e. First,
Last and count of headers was only updated when the header list was
displayed.

V1.02 released 11th January 1995 incorporates the above fix.

If low on system memory, PTDBMGR could fail during initialisation, and
PT would hang waiting for initialisation to finish. PT now reports the
failure.
If set "Last Host Msg" higher than really heard, then set it lower, the
last message read stays at the higher value. Allow change in Next Message
menu.
The message header list on the Series 3 Classic only showed titles. Show 
the whole thing.
Fix Connection Status box on Series 3 Classic. Text scribbled over the box 
margin.
Fix PT Set preferences dialog so that there are not too many items on the
Series 3 Classic. Move 7+ options to new menu item.

V1.03 released 15th August 1995 incorporates the above fixes.
