TimeVoc5 
Version 1.0
Night-time Speaking Clock for the Psion Series 5



Introduction:
Thank you for trying TimeVoc5.
TimeVoc5 is a shareware speaking clock for the Psion Series 5.
It will allow you to know the time if you wake up in the dark,
without the inconvenience or disturbance caused by switching on
lights, and without having to sense out the key combination to 
turn on the backlight. You simply reach for your Psion. Tap the 
screen lightly with you finger to switch it on, then tap the 
screen once again and the Psion will gently speak out the time. 
"Oh - Four - Two - Seven" lets you know it is twenty-seven minutes 
past four. Once the Psion has spoken the time, it automatically 
switches off. That's all it takes, two taps. You hardly need wake 
up! Also, if you wish, the backlight can come on automatically, 
while the screen displays a large clock for several seconds.To 
return to normal operation, switch the Psion on and press Ctrl-e 
to exit the application.


Installing Timevoc5

The following files are required

TimeVoc5.app            The main application file
TimeVoc5.aif
0 to 9		        The number-sound files

(The sound files are not required for backlight only operation).

Create a new folder Timevoc5 in your \System\Apps\ folder.
If the System folder does not appear on your machine, go to menu
item Tools, then Preferences and check the "Show 'System' folder"
box.

Copy the files TimeVoc5.app and TimeVoc5.aif to this folder.

Create a new folder "Tmv" off the root folder and copy files 0 to 9
to this folder.



Note1: The unregistered version of Timevoc5 will not work
between 0300hrs and 0700hrs.

Note2: Switching the Psion on:
There are three ways to switch the Psion Series 5 on. It can switch on 
when the screen is tapped, when the case is opened, or when the ESC key 
is pressed. We suggest you set it to switch on when the screen is tapped.
This is set from the Control Panel, under the "Switch On/Off" icon.

Getting started

Tap the Extras button and then the TimeVoc5 icon.
Press Esc until you get to the main TimeVoc5 screen. 
The clock shows the current time. Lightly tap the screen with your finger
and you will hear the Psion speak out this time. The backlight will also 
switch on. The Psion will then switch itself off. Switch the Psion back on 
by tapping the screen, and then tap the screen again. Once again the Psion 
speaks out the time and switches off. Switch on the Psion once again, now 
key Ctrl-e to close the application. You can now see how the program will 
work and how it is suited for use in the dark.


Codladh Samh (pronounced "cullock sawve") is Irish for "sleep
well"


Use as night time speaking clock:

Before you go to bed, activate the application by tapping the TimeVoc5 icon. 
Press "Esc" until you get to the main screen. Now switch off the machine in
the normal fashion. Leave the case open. If, during the night you wish to know 
the time, reach for the Psion, tap the screen twice and listen to the time. No 
further action is required as the machine automatically switches off at this point. 
In the morning, switch on the Psion and press Ctrl-e to close the application.

(Leaving the case open is more convenient, but is obviously not necessary. You can 
switch the machine on by some other method.)

If you prefer, you can disable the sound and simply use the backlit clock to tell 
the time.

Use Ctrl-c to alter the volume of the sound, and to enable or disable backlight 
and sound operation as required.


Registration:

To register send 12 pounds (UK or Irish) or 20 US Dollars
or equivalent to :

Estuary Technologies Ltd,
2 Seabury Parade
Malahide
Co Dublin
Ireland.

You will be sent your registration code by return post, or, if
you prefer, by email.

You may register via Compuserve. The SWREG ID is 16534.
The cost is 20 US Dollars.

We accept Visa / Mastercard / Eurocard

Post to the above address or fax details to +353 1 8450694 and include
Card number
Expiry date
Your name and address
State that you wish to register TimeVoc5
Yor credit card will be charged 12 Pounds Irish.

Keying in Registration Code:

When you receive your registration code, run the application. 
Press Ctrl-k and fill in your name and code, followed by "Enter". 

If you do not have the code, the program will still work, however the time will not 
sound between 3am and 7am. Registration will allow for proper working at any time. 



FEATURE OVERVIEW


Menu:
Pressing the "Menu" key or tapping the menu tag will allow you to access the following 
features. 

Operations/features:

Changing configuration:
This is activated by keying "Ctrl-c"
You can choose from between three volume settings - Loud,
Moderate and Quiet. The setting which is in use is shown at the
left. You can also switch sound off, and disable
or enable backlight working.

Close:
Access key "Psion-e"
Exits the application

How to register:
Access key - "Ctrl-h"
Gives details on how to register

Key registration code:
Access key - "Ctrl-k"
Allows you to key in registration code

Speaking time:
Tap the screen, key ESC or key Ctrl-s.

Changing sound files from one disk to another:
When you start up Timevoc it searches the Psion disks for sound file
1 in the \tmv folder. The search order is Internal, D. So if you have the
sound files on Internal, say, and want to switch them to D, copy
the files to folder \tmv on D, delete them from the internal disk,
exit the Timevoc application and then restart it. Timevoc will
find the files on D and use this as the disk for the sound files.


Using your own voice and language:

It is quite simple to have the application use your own voice and
language to speak out the time. The application uses the sound
files 0 to 9 in the \TMV directory. You can use the RECORD
application to record ten files using your own voice and language
to say "Oh", "1", ... "9". Record Oh to 0, 1 to 1 etc.
Keep the recordings as short as possible to conserve memory. 
Save the recordings as files in the \TMV folder overwriting the
files which are already there.


Trouble-shooting:

Time is not spoken:
Check sound is switched on at the Control Panel.
Batteries may be too low for audio.
Sound files not installed
Volume set to "Off"


Be Fair:

If you use Timevoc5, please register it.


Uninstalling Timevoc-5:

To uninstall the application completely, delete the TimeVoc5 folder mentioned 
under Install above, and and the files contained in it, along with the tmv folder 
and the files contained in it.


Disclaimer:
Timevoc5 is a fully tested application. The author or publisher cannot be held
responsible for any damage which might result from its use.



Copyright:
Timevoc5 is copyright 1995, 1996 of David J Joyce and 1997 of Estuary Technologies Ltd.



Contact:

Post:   Estuary Technologies Ltd
	2 Seabury Parade
	Malahide
	Co Dublin
	Ireland

Email: 	estuary@compuserve.com
	
Phone:  +353-87-2341693
Fax:	+353 1 8450694



