                               P3aOLR2

                             Version 2.1F
                               
Off Line Reader for QWK formatted mail packets on the Psion series 3a
As at this version, you cannot read Blue wave packets with this program

Copyright 1994 UK, Faye Pearson. All rights reserved.

You may not modify this program  without the express permission of the
author.

This program is Shareware, you may try it for a limited period of two
weeks, after which if you continue to use it, you should register
- details later.

The ZIP archive may be distributed, unchanged, as long as no charge
apart from a reasonable copying fee is charged.

The registered program and its data files may not be distributed in any
form.

Neither the author of this software or Psion Ltd. can be held responsible
for any loss of data, hardware or lives as a result of using this software.


HISTORY
Version 2.1F
  Fixed bug with default directory mangling on both UNZIP.OPA and
  P3aOLR2.OPA. - who said "finally"?
Version 2.1
  Speeded up Conference loading
  Fixed bug with more than 255 conferences
  Removed the need to press the psion key to access functions
Version 2.0
  Complete rewrite to make better use of the Psions features
  Closer integration with the Psion's system screen
  Fixed bug with limited message length
  Included proportional fonts for easier readability
  Allowed user to quit program without tidying up, enabling users
  without enough memory to run UNZIP to unzip at a remote machine
  and just copy the uncompressed files to the Psion.
  Calls text editor to edit messages.
Version 1.0
  Single font reader, limited to 255 conferences and Fixed length
  messages.  Freeware.
  Uses Link/Paste to Bring quoted text to other applications.
  Known bug - intermittent problem with default directory mangling
    

INSTALLING

The files in the zip archive should be extracted to the following
directories:

On the same drive:
\APP\
P3AOLR2.OPA
UNZIP.OPA
\RUN\
UNZIP13L.IMG

On your default drive (set with Psion-Shift-H from the system screen)
\QWK\
P3AOLR2.TAG

The files are stored in these directories in the archive, so If you
already have unzip on your psion, just select the root directory of
your default drive as the destination and extract all the files.


REGISTRATION
You may use this program for a limited period of two weeks, should
you wish to continue to use the program, you should register it.
Registration will personalise your copy of the program, and remove
any restrictions (Nag screens, taglines and reply packet sizes).
It will also encourage continuing development of this and other
software by the author.  Your registration will work with all
shareware upgrades of the software (ie. if you registered V2.0 your
copy of 2.1F will already be registered when installed)

A registration fee of œ15 should be sent to
          Faye Pearson
          7 Stopford Rd.
          Plaistow
          E13 0LY


USING THE PROGRAM

To start the program you select a file from beneath the Program's icon
and press the Enter key.  This will extract the files from the selected
QWK packet.  The extract is done in two stages, the first extracts
CONTROL.DAT and other command files, The reader can then work on these
whilst extracting MESSAGES.DAT.

The application has help available on pressing the HELP key.  Menus with
the MENU key and you can switch modes with the DIAMOND key.  You can
however go through the entire program by pressing the SPACE bar (when
registered).  Psion-Z and Psion-z cycle through different fonts whilst in
the message view, and the cursor keys move around the message.

From the conference list mode:
Conferences containing messages are listed in BLACK, others are listed in
GREY.

To enter your registration code press Psion-r (r will work, or choose
Register from the menu) type the code as given to you and press Enter
Your program will now be fully registered, Thank you.

To Enter a new message in this conference press Psion-e (e will work, or
choose Message/Enter from the menu), you may send a private message to
multiple recipients by entering each name on the TO: line, separated by a
comma. In order for this to work, the message must be set as private and
may not contain the name ALL in the TO: field eg:

Private: Yes
To: Steve James,Dave Phillips
From: Faye Pearson
Subject: General
Sig File File: My.sig
Drive: A
Tagline: Unfunny tagline...

Would send the message entered to Steve James and Dave Phillips.
If not private, it would only have been sent to Steve James (since it
is assumed that a non-private message could be read by all).
If you wish to abort the message at this stage, you can do so by
pressing the Esc key. Pressing Enter will call the built-in text editor
to edit your message (For details see the Psion3a User guide
pages 126,91-125) The spell-checker is available if installed.

To Add/Drop conferences from your scan, use Psion-a and Psion-d.  If
pressing these do not work, then the BBS mail door does not support
this feature.

Psion-o will delete the extracted files from the QWK packet and open
another QWK packet for extraction. Switching files on the system
screen whilst the program is running will have the same action.

Psion-x will delete the extracted files from the QWK packet and exit
the program

Psion-q will leave the extracted files alone and exit the program.
pressing <-Delete from the system screen will have the same effect.


From the message display mode:
Cursor keys move around the message.
n and p - view the next and previous message respectively,
j - Jump to message
f - find messages matching specifications
g - find again
e - enter new message in this conference
r - reply to current message
w - write current message to file

Hope you enjoy the program.

Faye, 1995.
