






                            Personal Accounts

                                Version 2.0





                        (C)opyright 1993 Gareth Evans










Personal Accounts                              	 9th June 1993

Personal Accounts is written for the Psion Series 3 computer.
I developed it for my personal use and have now adapted the program 
to make it more practical for public use.  It provides an easy to use 
facility to manage finances in various bank accounts. You can credit 
and debit your accounts, transfer money to other accounts, set up 
standing orders,  print accounts and edit or amend the various accounts 
at a later date, all with auto date and balance sort. You may have an 
unlimited number of accounts within the Psion's capacity,  but due to
 the limited screen size the maximum transaction that can be carried out 
is œ9,999.99. Anyone with more money than this in their accounts please 
forward a significant portion of it to me and I will give the problem my 
fullest attention!



Installation

Simply copy the program ACCOUNTS.opa to your APP directory. If you 
do not already have this directory, you can either make it by 
pressing Psion+ whilst on the system screen with the Time application
highlighted or you must include it in the path when you are in the Copy
file pop-up menu. i.e. \app\ACCOUNTS ,see the Psion manual for more details. 
Once you have copied the file into the directory, again with the Psion on the 
system screen press PSION I.  When the install application dialog pops 
up, select ACCOUNTS and press return. Personal accounts should now be 
installed and can be run in the usual manner.

The first time you run the program it creates the following directories :-
ACC - This directory holds the records of the individual accounts.
ACC\ACCOUNTS - This sub-directory holds the general housekeeping files.





Using the  program for the first time

The first choice you will be given is to select if  you would like to use a 
password or not. If you choose to select a password, from then on you  will 
be prompted for the password before the program will run.  Next you have to 
name the first of your accounts, this can either be a "Current account", a
"High interest account" or  have no extension i.e. Visa. You will then be
presented with a screen with the words :- 
	DATE      DETAILS          AMOUNT    BALANCE
and no records. If you press the menu button you will then get a menu showing
all the functions available to you and the "current" account name. As you
become more familiar with the program you will find that you can use the
"short-cut" keys i.e. PSION C instead of going to the menu and selecting
Credit account. The help button will show which account you are in, as well
as the menu screen. This is not shown all the time to maximise the amount of
available screen.
After you have placed some transactions in your account you will notice the
cursor on the far left of the screen, this shows the current  transaction. 
Before you use some of the functions you need to place the cursor alongside 
the selected transaction using the up and down cursor keys. If for instance 
you want to change the amount of one of the transactions you simply move the 
cursor alongside it and press PSION E or E (for Edit) and you will get a dialog 
pop up allowing you to change any of the details. If you want to move a screen 
at a time then you press the PSION key and the up or down keysor the left and 
right keys for the beginning and end of the file respectively. If  you select 
the delete Record (R) function you are given the option of just deleting 
the "current" transaction or to delete all of the records up to a given date, 
if you choose the latter your  final balance will not be affected because the 
new first record will now read BALANCE and show a credit or debit that relates 
to the balance at the time of the last erased record. This enables you to 
quickly reduce the length of  the account records, because after you have a
few months' worth of transactions  you will notice that the auto-date sort and 
balance sort starts to slow down. There is a date sort option under the Special
menu, this is to resort the account fully if any problems occur with the autosort,
it should normally not be needed, however under exceptional circumstances the file 
could become unsorted. If you wish to enter a transaction but do not want it to
show up on the balance you can now "HIDE" it, this is shown onscreen by inverting 
the pixels that display the amount. This amount will now not be taken account of, 
when calculating the balance, until "SHOW" is selected.

All of the usual Psion conventions should apply when using the program i.e. 
PSION X or X to exit. In order to protect against prying eyes the program will 
automatically turn itself off after System power ON, the only exception 
to this is if you are in a dialog  pop-up menu when you turn off the Psion, or
if you are a registered user. This is because the system interrupts are not 
available when you are in a menu. The compress function is to reduce the size 
of a file that has had a lot of amendments done to it. This is necessary because
the Psion does not release all of the ram  after it has erased a record, but as the
file is effectively compressed each time you change accounts you should only need
to do this if you have just a single account installed.  

Pressing 1 from within the program will now take you straight to the system screen. 
Hopefully all other functions are self-explanatory and you will have no other 
problems. However as is the way of such things, there is almost certainly still
a few bugs lurking around in the depths of the program, so if you discover any 
or can think of any improvements ( sensible suggestions only please. )
please drop me a line and I will try to help.




Disclaimer

Personal accounts is Copyright (C) Gareth Evans, 1993. Permission is given to 
freely distribute this software and documentation as long as the following 
restrictions are observed: 

-  The software and documentation should not be modified without permission  
from the author.

-  No fee may be charged for distribution of this software apart from a small 
handling charge.

- The following three files must be passed on together.

accounts.opa		-	The program
accounts.doc		-	This file
accounts.txt		-	This file in plain text format



The author accepts no responsibility for damage or loss due to the use of 
this software. Use of this software is at the users own risk. Every effort 
has been made to ensure that this software works correctly and can cause no 
damage to the system on which it is run. 



Registration

This program is not free it is shareware.  If you like it and use it regularly
it would be greatly appreciated if you use the transfer function to place 10 
pounds into my current account! 

To help you remember my address, after about 18 boot ups, you  will notice 
a nag screen that will appear showing it in full.  Registering yourself  will
ease both your conscience and my overdraft.  I will then send you a code that
will show you as a registered user, disable the nag screen and enable some 
extra functions.  Registered users will receive new versions as they become 
available. 


If you wish to register or pass on any comments, please write to me at the 
following address:-

GARETH EVANS
WATERS' EDGE
LLANIGON
HEREFORD
HR3 5PU

Telephone :0497 821326
                                        THE END
