WageCalc v2.0

Introduction

Hello, and welcome to WageCalc v2.0.

This program is intended for use by
individuals such as the author; who
works on flexi-time for a standard
wage, for varying hours in a month.

If you are a part-time or a flexi-
time worker; you may find this little
program of use for keeping track of
the number of hours you have worked
in a month, and also for gaining a 
good approximation of your end-of-the
month salary.

Currently, this program only deals with
English Sterling currency. However, the 
author is willing to tailor the program to
your own currency (if different) if you
 register. Later releases will consider 
other currencies, and may even be multi-
lingual. Do contact the author if you have 
any requests etc.

Consideration is given to income taxing, 
although national insurance contributions
are not considered in this release.

WageCalc v2.0 runs on Series 3 machines
only, in the background, and allows the 
machine to auto-switch off. It uses only
about 13k of RAM although the help
file is optional, which reduces the need to
only about 9k. It  only  needs about 15k 
of memory to run.

Installation

The WCalcv2.zip file contains three files. 
These are listed below:

WCalcv2.opa : The program file
WCalcv2.txt : This file in plain text format
WCalcv2.rsc : The program help file

Place the .opa file into the \APP directory, 
and install from the system screen. If you 
want the online help then put the .rsc file
into the \OPD directory. This help file is 
optional though, so if you have a lack of 
space; you can remove it. Upon registration;
 Wagecalc.reg  is created in the \OPD directory.
 This is the file used for registration purposes, 
and is also to where WageCalc saves out income 
data.

The program has been designed and tested on the
internal RAM of a 3c only, but running it from
a SSD should be okay, as long as it is RAM.
Operation

This program has been designed, and 
thus programmed to be user friendly
and as such: easy to use.

The INPUT DATA menu allows you to input 
the number of hours worked per day
for each week in one month. The 
weeks are relative: Week 1, Week2
etc. Also in this menu is INCOME DATA.
In this selection one can input the
pay per hour, income tax rate, and the
monthly tax ceiling; which is the amount
of cash one can earn in a month before
being taxed.This is currently œ288 for
the UK.If the program is un-registered;
the data here is not saved, but if you
do register the program (see REGISTRATION)
then the values are saved out every time
you exit the program, and thus if correct
do not need entering upon later use.

The other menus are self explanatory, where
calculations of earnings are made, and 
where one can get summaries for the month.
Play around until you get it!

WageCalc has been designed to run in the
background; so values can be entered over
the course of the month, and not all in one
go (although you can do this too).When you
have entered the values that you want, but
will want to enter more in a couple of days
press the SYSTEM button and WageCalc will
be highlighted in bold (showing that it is
still running).To go back in:select the bold
and press ENTER.

If you exit WageCalc, then all input (other
than income data, if registered) will be lost.
Therefore use above system to leave it running
in the background.

Registration

This program is not free, although v1.0 was.
Therefore you are entitled to evaluate the
program for 20 days, but after this period
if you continue using the program; you must
register it.

Registration removes the nagscreens as well
as saving out income data values. Also it
means you are supporting the shareware 
market; are clearing your conscience; and 
are inviting me to write more programs for 
the Psion Series 3 range of handheld compu-
ters. Lastly; the author will offer free support 
for this program. To register: send a cheque or cash
for œ3 UK, or $5 US, (or equivalent in your currency) 
to the address below:

5 Kenyon Rd
North End
Portsmouth
Hants
PO2 OJZ
England

E-mail: (for any comments, suggestions etc)

         GEOG6090@GEOG.PORT.AC.UK

Make cheques payable to C.Holland,and include
a letter stating your full address, e-mail if 
applicable, and any other forms of communicat-
ion open to you, along with your full name, 
the version number of the program, and details
of where you acquired this program.

If you are yourself a programmer, then I may
consider "swapping" the code for this program
with a code for one of your own programs, should
I find a use for one of yours; but obviously 
send me details of where to obtain your program.

Legal Considerations

The author is unable to accept any liability 
for loss or damage to software, files, or hardware 
that may result as a consequence of using this
program. You use this software at you own risk.
It is your own choice to make backups of all
important data before using this package, but
the author recommends it just in case!.

To the best of the authors knowledge; this program
is free of bugs and problems. However if you should
find any bugs, please notify the author at the 
e-mail address listed in REGISTRATION section. 

Version History

v0.1 to v.09 : Not released, used for my own purposes 
			and training in OPL programming.

v1.0 : Released as Freeware for public use, in order 
         to gain some feedback.

v2.0 : Released as Shareware. Completely rewritten to
 sort out minor bugs, to add extra considerations in 
calculations, to add extra summaries, to change icon,
(as  v1.0's is pretty nasty), and make smaller in RAM
consumption. 

The Future : Multi-linguisitc considerations
             Different currency considerations
             Possibility of saving out the timesheets
             so that program can be exited to free up 
             memory.
                      Any suggestions??


C.K.Holland Jan 1998.
