HamLoc is a simple converter for calculating a station location. It 
calculates between latitude and longitude, IARU locator, and UK 
National Grid.

By entering just one of these parameters, HamLoc will calculate the 
other two. 
There are some limitations, mainly due to the way latitude and 
longitude are described. The Earth is not a true spheroid, as the 
diameter across the equator is greater than the distance between the 
poles. Neither is the Earth a true ellipsoid, the surface is somewhat 
uneven! In order to produce maps and charts, different countries 
adopt different methods to make a mathematical model which best fits 
their country. Generally, an ellipsiod with a suitable major and 
minor axis is positioned so as the surface best fits the shape of the 
surface of their country.
 
There are many such ellipsoids in use by different map makers, some 
of which have been used as a basis to describe the whole world. The 
satellite based Global Positioning System uses a method based on one 
such ellipsoid. 
Inaccuracies can be reduced by adding corrections based on known 
locations, however for amateur radio purposes the calculations can be 
simplified, since a precision better than a few metres is not usually 
required.

GPS uses a system called WGS84 (World Geodetic System 1984) to 
describe latitude and longitude. This is used to calculate the IARU 
locator system. 

UK National Grid references use 3 different ellipsiods:
The "Airey Spheroid  of 1830" for Great Britain and its islands, 
The "Modified Airey Spheroid" for the OS maps of Ireland,
INT24 for the Channel Islands, Jersey, Guernsey, Alderney, Sark, 
Herm, etc.

The method by which these ellipsoids are made to fit the shape of the 
earth is Known as a datum. Thus 3 datums are used, based on the above 
ellipsoids:

OSGB36 for Great Britain,
Ireland 65 (or 75) for Northern Ireland,
ED50 for the Channel Islands.

Conversions between WGS84 (GPS) latitude and longitude, and OSGB36 
National Grid (England, Wales and Scotland) should be accurate to 
within a few metres. The calculations used for locations in Ireland 
and Northern Ireland assume the Irish 65 datum based on the "Modified 
Airey" Ellipoid.  If anyone knows how to convert this to WGS84 then 
please let me know! However the difference is quite small and 
probably within the accuracy of civil GPS and paper maps.

In the case of the Channel Islands, I have not converted the INT24 
ellipsoid to WGS84. Once again the inaccuracy should be very small. 
If you are using paper maps, the error may be less than the thickness 
of a grid line on the map.

The method used to describe the National Grid for the Channel Islands 
is not the same as the UK. It is based on the UTM grid, calculated 
from the INT24 ellipsoid. I have not been able to find sufficient 
data to confirm my calculations, but I believe them to be quite 
accurate. If you have any accurate data, I would appreciate some spot 
values!

Similarly I would appreciate some spot values for Ireland. If you 
have a 1:25,000 (or better) map of Northern Ireland, I would 
appreciate the spot values at the corners of your map!

Please note that the IARU locator system describes "squares" of quite 
large area. If you type in your NGR or lat/lon and get your locator, 
then highlight the locator and press enter, you will most likely get 
a different NGR or lat/lon. This is because the centre of the IARU 
locator is used as the input. Obviously there is no way that Hamloc 
can know where in a locator your QTH is!


Using HamLoc

It is very easy to use Hamloc, the user interface is very simple. 
There is no Help or Menu - everything should be obvious.

To enter latitude and longitude, simply move the cursor and enter the 
figures. Press enter when you have filled in both fields.

You can use either conventional degrees, minutes and seconds, or you 
can use degrees, minutes, and hundredths of minutes. Use the 
Geographics setting to change this. The program will re-initialise, 
but should retain and convert any values you have entered to the new 
setting. Unfortunately the "seconds" symbol is still displayed when 
the ddmm.mm system is chosen.

Locators and National Grid can be entered by moving the highlight to 
the appropriate parameter and type in your location. The IARU locator 
should be entered like JM39GE, i.e. 6 character without spaces. The 
letter case is not important, and locators are converted to upper 
case for clarity.

The UK National Grid can be entered in several forms, like
SU24
SU 24
SU2345
SU234567
SU 23456 78901

Spaces are optional, although results have spaces for clarity. If you 
enter a four-character NGR, it is converted as follows:

SU24  to  SU 25000 45000

A six-character NGR is converted as follows:

SU2345  to  SU 23000 45000

Eight and ten character NGR's are similarly converted.

NGR's for Northern Ireland have only one letter, but are similarly 
converted:

J3344  to  J 33000 44000

i.e. in all cases the NGR is converted to the 1 metre form.


Distances and bearings

You can save any current setting as a reference by pressing Ctrl-S or 
pressing the "Set as reference" button on the first page. Thereafter, 
the Great Circle and Rhumb Line distances and bearings are calculated 
for each location when you press enter. The results are displayed on 
the "Bearings" page in Kilometres and Nautical Miles.

Calculations use standard navigation techniques.

Installing Hamloc

In the archive are a number of files. Extract these to a temporary 
folder on your computer.

If you have an earlier version of Hamloc installed, you should delete 
the folder C:\System\Apps\Hamloc\ and all its contents.

The file Hamloc.sis can be installed using Psion Install. If you have 
PsiWin 2.1 or later on your PC, you may be able to double click this 
file for automatic installation to your Psion. If you have Psion 
Install on your Series 5, you can copy Hamloc.sis to any folder on 
your Psion, and install from there by highlighting it and pressing 
enter. Note than NMPD.OPX will be installed during the process.


Uninstalling Hamloc

If you used Psion Install or PsiWin 2.1, you can uninstall using the 
Add/Remove applet in the Series 5 Control Panel.

Otherwise just delete the folder C:\System\Apps\Hamloc\ and all its 
contents.
HamLoc writes a small file HamLoc.ini which holds its reference 
location.


Notes

HamLoc was written by Roger Muggleton G0HZK. I would like to thank 
Dr. Roger Blakeway G1PXM and the many others who gave me assistance 
with algorithms and reference data.

HamLoc is Freeware.

The authors claims no responsibility for HamLoc's suitability for 
use, and no responsibility for any damage to any computer whatsoever. 
Use HamLoc at your own risk. HamLoc is not intended as a navigational 
tool, and should not be used as such. Nor should it be used where 
risk to life, or safety, is involved.

Hamloc uses NMPD.OPX by Neuon.
NMPD.opx is copyright (c) Alex Wilbur, Henry Hirst & Neuon 1999
The opx will be installed automatically from the Hamloc.sis file.

HamLoc Version 2.00 December 1999

All comments to the author at  roger@g0hzk.co.uk

