eTxtRead  for Psion S3A
Version   1.15 october, 1996

ATTENTION
  My compression program can read files created with
  the program TCREADER. When you use this program,
  you have to register this with the author
  Barry Childress (73510.1420@compuserve.com).

  For more information, see the text from Barry 
  at the end of this file.



INTRODUCTION

  eTxtRead is a text file reader.
  The files can have any size and can be compressed.
  The files can be shown vertical or horizontal in any of
  the built-in s3A rom fonts.


INSTALLATION

  eTxtread comprises the following files:
    ETXTREAD.APP
    ETXTREAD.TXT

  Copy ETXTREAD.APP into the \APP directory.
  Make a directory \TXT.
  Copy ETXTREAD.TXT into the \TXT directory.

  Install the ETXTREAD.APP program using the Psion + I key
  from the system screen.


CHANGES

Version V1.15

Extra registration screen when using compressed files.


Version V1.14

Registration screen when using compressed files.


Version V1.13

Beta text in version info deleted


Version V1.12 Beta

Changed the Psion combination for the
Find next menu command from 'G' to 'N'

Start/End of file now also by pressing
Psion-ctrl- Up / Down.

About screen on exit without saving prd removed


Version V1.11 Beta

Bug Fix:
Scrolling when at the end of file could
produce garbage on the last line.

Bug Fix:
Scrolling up could copy the file progress
bar when in vertical viewing

Bug Fix:
Chars with accents were replaced by chars.

Bug Fix:
In version 1.10 Beta, a file could not be
opened by using the menu.


Version V1.10 Beta

Search in normal or compressed files.
This is rewritten and optimized for speed.
The file progress bar shows the progress
of the search.

Short description in help about
the formatting of text.

eTxtReader.txt is updated and
check for spelling errors by Ken Wright.

The format of the setup files are changed.
The program still loads
a setup file (*.prd) from version 1.03,
but when saving, this is converted to
the new format.

Default setup:
When loading the default setup,
the bookmarks are now cleared.

File progress bar width = 2 pixels
About screen is moved to the beginning of the program
so you can close eTxtReader from the system screen.

No extra screen update on startup

Bookmarks:
  Was working on Belgian Psion only I think.
  Rewritten, now possible to use 30 bookmarks.
  Use:
   Press S followed by bookmark key
   to set a bookmark
   Press G followed by bookmark key
   to goto a bookmark

Jump to percentage:
Fixed bug when used in compressed files.
Automaticly set the current percentage.
Note: this is still not done with floating
point numbers.
Maybe next version...

Line scroll in vertical mode:
Clearing half scrolled text on bottom of screen.


Version V1.03


default vertical orientation changed.

searching can be interrupted by pressing ESC.

the found word is shown inverted.

rewrite of documentation for Text Alias files.


Version V1.02


tab key for previous page.

new vertical orientation.

new menu layout.

default setup file in \opd directory.

fix psion z/Z in menu.



OVERVIEW

  eTxtRead is a fast, compact text file viewer written in C.
  Files compressed by TCREADER from Barry Childress can also
  be viewed.
  Files in different directories can be put together with the use
  of the Make Alias function in the program.

  Many of the menu commands have shortcuts without the psion-key
  for using the program with one hand.

  The program has a horizontal and 2 vertical viewing modes.




DOCUMENTATION

  You can use the help button for all of the shortcut keys
  and the Make Alias function. The rest of the documentation
  you can find here.

  Text formatting  modes:

  There are 3 formatting modes that can be selected
  with the diamond/shift diamond key:
    Optimized:
      The program tries to format lines
      that are too long according to the original file.
      If the line is cut off, then the next newline is ignored
      and the space after the ignored newline is put in front
      of the line. Sometimes this can produce strange effects.
    Line:
      Lines that are too long just continue on the next row.
    Continue:
      Newlines are ignored.

  Shortcuts:

    The keys mentioned in the next part of
    this text can be accessed with or without
    the psion key. This makes it easier to
    use the program with one hand.
    An overview of the keys can be seen by pressing
    the help key and selecting shortcuts.

  Viewing:

    The program can show text vertical or horizontal with
    the shortcut keys 'v' or 'h'.
    When going to vertical orientation, there is a short
    delay where the program is making the vertical font.
    When you chose a different font (see later) in
    vertical orientation, the same delay occurs.
    When pressing v when already in vertical mode,
    the other vertical mode is selected.

  Fonts:

    All the Psion 3A built-in rom fonts can be used
    in vertical and horizontal orientation.
    To select the next/previous font use
    the 'z'/'Z' keys.
    To switch bold use 'b' or 'B'.
    When swithing fonts while in vertical orientation,
    you could temporarily switch to horizontal mode
    to avoid the delay for making the fonts.

    The fonts are switch from small to big with
        alternating Roman en Swiss font.


  Text Alias:

    The default directory for eTxtRead is normaly
    the \TXT directory.
    (You can use other directories from the system
    screen when you create a new list).

    If you want to view files that are not in the
    directory for eTxtRead, you can use a Text Alias.

    A Text Alias is a short file that is saved in the
    directory for eTxtRead that contains a link
    to another file. The alias files are then
    visible in the system screen.

    When you select the text alias file from the system
    screen, eTxtRead will open the file in the other
    directory.


    The setup information for the file will be
    saved in the directory for eTxtRead.
    This can also be used for viewing text files in
    flash memory because the config file will not
    be saved on flash memory.

    How to make an alias:

    Select eTxtRead with the directory you
    want the text alias to be.

    Use the 'Open file' menu command to open
    the text file in another directory or device.

    Execute the 'Make alias' menu command to
    save the text alias file.

    After exiting eTxtRead, the file should
    be added to the system screen and can be
    used like a regular file.


  Feedback
        Comments,suggestions, bugs can be sent to:

      Email: Peter.Muys@hookon.be
      http://door.hookon.be/~petemuys/

      Peter Muys
      Invalidenstraat 102
      9041 Oostakker (Gent)
      Belgium
      0032 (0)9 259 09 23


THANKS TO

  Special thanks to Ken Wright for checking for spelling 
  errors in this text.

  (Also thanks to the people that have sent suggestions
  to make this program better.)
    






Included below is a text from Barry Childress, the
author of Reader and TCReader, the compression program.
Everybody that uses tcr files with eTxtReader should register
this with Barry because he did al the work on tcreader.
Registered users get a eTxtReader version without the tcr-nag-screens.


ABOUT TCR FILES BY BARRY CHILDRESS

TCR files are compressed files that are approximately 50% smaller then the
original text file and was originally developed for Reader (my file viewer.) A
fair amount of work has been put into the compressor (TCReader) to produce
these files so they can be decompressed quickly on the Psion.  To help support
further development (better compression ratio) I am asking for a registration
fee of $15 USD.  In return you'll get a version of eTxtRead with no nag
screens (with special thanks to Peter for this) and the latest version of
TCReader.  You'll also receive updates by email for no additional charge.

To help support Peter's idea of making public domain texts more accessible on
the Psion I'm willing to discount the registration fee even further.  The
rational behind this is while public domain texts should be freely available
that "right" does not extend to being fully usable in compressed form.  Or if
you will, I'm saving you a cost of a (larger) SSD.  If you feel the deal is
not worth $15 then just write me your thoughts plus what you feel is a fair
price and I will send out the latest version of eTxtRead with no nag screens.
Please note that this discount offer does not give you a license to use
TCReader to produce your own TCR files it only gives you a way to view files
that have been compressed with TCReader. (Write if you need help locating
these files on the net.)

To register:

The quickest way to get your registered copy of eTxtRead and the latest
version of TCReader is drop a check in the mail for the equivalent of $15 USD
in _any_ currency then email me that you have done so and I'll email you back
a uuencode version of the program(s).  (Please note that I do prefer USA
checks or cash but I will take what ever is convenient for you.)

                          Reader c/o Barry Childress
                            3701 Fords Lane Apt C
                              Baltimore MD 21215

                 Phone (410) 764-7821 - Compuserve 73510,1420
                     Internet: 73510.1420@compuserve.com

And finally I would like to say my goal is to encourage people to read more
and get a little something for my efforts. If the above pricing plan is
going to stop you from reading then please write to me I'm sure we can work
something out.  Barry Childress (author of TCReader)





COPYRIGHT
    eTxtRead is copyright 1996 by Peter Muys.
    All rights reserved.
    The program is currently distributed as FREEWARE.

DISCLAIMER
    The author shall not be responsible for any loss or
    damage of any kind due to the use of this program.
