Bugs and Issues - Symlink v1.26

* A Word file containing a Symlink object cannot be converted to a PC file

* Opening a link to a browser (eg .html) file will always display the
home page, if that is enabled.

* With a link to a link, if both are open in separate instances the 1st
instance does not closedown

* Can't link to the root directory in a volume (eg. C:\). (These are
not actually directories).

* One user has reported Symlink crashing when selecting a file to link 
to with "Use browser" set. This may be associated with a large D: drive,
but take care. Please report it if it happens - we have not repeated it.

* For embedded objects, you may see occasionally see captions drawn in 
the host application at different size then it appears in Symlink's
own caption box - particular in Word. This is because the device map
used by Word differs from the standard screen device, and it can have a
different notion of the width of strings. Symlink has a small error
allowence built in, but the factor is subjective. If you see this happening
and feel it is unacceptable, please report it to Treesoft and we will
see what we can do. Hopefully this should not happen.

* Relayed object views can confuse (say) Word if the object changes
size while Word is open. This manifests itself in two ways. If the object
shrinks then Word still operates as if it were larger. If the object grows you may get
an object scaled or cropped to fix the original size. Exiting Word
and restarting should fix the problem - usually just reformating the
object works too.

* ER5 has changed the Email infrastructure. There is no history list and
the app level new message interface has changed completely - each client
program is seemingly expected to run its own message editorm rather than
launch via the Email app. Since a10_3 ER5 Symlink uses the Web browser to
create new Email messages. This should change, but may require a new
custom application.

* Since a10_3 Symlink now tries to lookup app icons using recognizers
rather than going on the file UID. This is more consistent with the
ER5 shell, but on a Psion5 it takes too long when - especially when
there is no icon because the Symlink keeps trying to find one. Need
extra flag to suite this, and may have to remove the feature.
