Files in this zip:
    MAKEALS.EXE         version 1.08 of Psion's MakeAls program
    MAKEALS.TXT         this documentation
    MYSPELL.MA          example alias source file

MakeAls.exe can be used to create .ALS files, the same way that the
"Create new list" menu command in the S3a System Screen does.

It has the advantage that you can use it for "no-file" apps.  Eg you
can change the icon for the SpellCheck application.

To use MakeAls, you need:
   a text input file, such as MySpell.MA
   an icon file, with the same basic name as the .MA file

Then type (eg) MAKEALS MYSPELL
and you'll end up with (eg) MYSPELL.ALS that you can install in the
System Screen in place of SPELL.APP (which you'll have to remove
manually).

MySpell.MA just has the following five lines (no indents)
    MySpell
    <leave empty>
    1000
    Spell
    <leave empty>

(the second and fifth lines are blank).

These lines have the following meaning:
    The first line gives the public name of the new group
    The second line could give the default directory
    The third gives the application type number
    The fourth the name of the application being aliased
    The fifth line gives possible alias data.

Alias data would be of significance only to an application supporting
positive aliasing (such as the word processor).

See the C SDK or the Opl Programming manual for more information
about application type numbers.  Note in this case that the 1000 is
necessary if the icon is 48x48 and contains a grey plane as well as a
black plane.

In the case of a file-based application, the default extension would
come one the first line too, eg MySpell.DIC, but in that case you
should use the System Screen's "Create new list" instead.

You'll need to supply MYSPELL.PIC by yourself.
You put it on the same directory, on the PC, as the .MA file.

Finally, there are a few strange things in the screen output from
MakeAls in the case of no-file apps, which you can safely ignore (I'm
talking about the "Expected extension" line).

PS, for interest, the .MA file for the S3a Program editor is
    Program.OPL
    \OPL\
    1003
    Word
    OROPO*
