1.  Quick start for experts.

2.  More help for the uninitiated.

3.  The future.

3a. I'm poor, please pay me.





1. Quick start.



Put all the files in a new folder named Upoker in your apps directory

on any drive.



Have fun, develop a gambling compulsion, but pay me first.







2. For the Uninitiated.



If you have got as far as this you're doing well. You have probably

already had to download, un-uuencode, unzip and then read this.

On your Psion close any open folders so you can see "internal" on

the title bar. If you can't see a folder called System press Menu,

Tools, then preferences. Tick "Show system folder" then press ok.

this press the system button to get the system screen. then press

TAB to get a list of  directories. If you don't see it press the

up arrow key until you get to the top of the list. 



Now open the system folder and from Menu, File, create new, press

Folder..., type the name Upoker and press ok.



If you're using Psiwin you can simply copy and paste all the files

that were in the zip file into the folder you've just created on

your Psion. To do this click on the first file that you have

extracted from the zip then while holding shift down click on the

last file. All the files from the zip will now be highlighted. Right

click on them and click on copy. Now select the newly created Upoker

directory on your Psion. Right click and select paste. In a few

seconds all the files will be transferred and you should have a new

icon on your icon bar.







3. Future Developments.



I will continue to develop Ultimate Poker as long as the trickle of

registrations continues. There are now versions for the 3a and 3c,

Siena and the 5.



I will be adding stud poker as an option.



The AIs will eventually have mannerisms and facial movement dependent

on game play.



I am also developing a really "big" game in all senses of the word.

Despite constant attention it is always about one month away from

completion. Being a one man team there is so much to do. The advantage

is that I always know exactly what the graphics, sound, story line and 

programming departments are up to. No slacking anywhere!



3a. (Kleenex required, Parental Warning. Don't read the next

paragraph if you are of a sensitive disposition.)


   O
  /\/
 _\   U


I'm poor. I live in a caravan (trailer if your in USA), have a wife,

parrot, 6 year old Citroen and 26 year old BSA Bantam to support

(not necessarily in that order of priority). I'm not going to

get rich writing games for the Psion but at my level of financial

existence every bit helps.



This is shareware. If you like the game and think it's worth it,

please pay me. The registered game has the following benefits:



	Automatic save and load game.

	Improved AIs, 3 levels of play.

	Automatic option settings save.

	More money to start with.

	No naggy start screen/jingle. 

	No winnings limiting.(no robbers)

	Fast deal option.

	Free access to future upgrades.

	And of course the priceless feel good factor 

	of helping a struggling young writer.



You will be helping in the development of this and other projects.

If you have a Compuserve account GO SWREG 12878 ($20)


You can pay by credit card via RegNet

Point your browser at http://www.swregnet.com/1462p.htm


In UK send a cheque for 12 UKPounds or your local currency cash

equivalent to:

I M Pinkard, 1a Millstone Park, Penyffordd, Chester CH4 0JF, UK.


In USA send a cheque for $20 payable to:-

Evan Chalmers (Secret American Agent)

526 NW 21st  #66

Portland OR (Oregon)  97210  USA



If you don't like this game thanks for trying it. Email me if you have

ideas for improvement, or games that you would like to play on your

Psion.



Thanks in anticipation of you support. Thanks very much to you good

people who've registered.



Lastly and mostly, thanks to

Phil Spencer author of the highly acclaimed and successful TimeMan and 

recently JWIN (Just What I Need) for much useful help and advice.

Dave Evans for his criticism (now developing 3a GPS Speak)

Eberhard Rompf, for patience with the pre-launch version, and

for registering < 4 hours after SWREG availability.

Dennis Lefebvre for rapid and thorough testing of the Siena version.

Cecilia for sharing the pain and joy of programming.

Steve Litchfield's 3Lib. Very useful web pages and services. A mine of 

information and useful links. Also a very flattering review of 

Ultimate Poker.



Ian Pinkard.

email pinkard@compuserve.com




