RT is a simple text file reader.

With RT, you can scroll up and down text files, and jump to any page
previously visited. You have the option to save the index of pages you
have read. RT reads less than 1k of your text file into memory at any
time, so you can read large files without using lots of memory. There is
a maximum limit, this is 1000 pages, about 1 Mbyte of normal text.

RT is as fast as I can make it!

Keys are rather non-standard:

Down Arrow   Go to next page
Up Arrow     Go to previous page
a, Ctrl-a    About screen
g, Ctrl-g    Go to any read page
h, Ctrl-h    Help
e, Ctrl-e    Exit, saving index
x, Ctrl-x    Exit, delete index
Menu

If you exit using the e key, an index of pages read will be saved. Next
time you run RT, the filename will be loaded in the file selector, and
simply pressing Enter will take you back to where you left last time.
This information is saved in RT.INI which is saved in the same folder
where RT.OPO was run from.

If you wish to read a new file, just navigate with the file selector, and
the index will be ignored.

There is an intelligent wrapping option on the file selector. If your text
file has 78 or less characters per line, leave this unchecked. For text
with longer lines, it is probably beneficial to check this. Wrapping is
implemented fairly simply, mainly to preserve the speed of RT.

If you exit using the x key, the index will be deleted. You will then have
a choice of closing RT, by pressing Enter, or opening a new file, by 
pressing O. Esc will abort these actions.

INSTALLATION

Just copy RT.OPO to any folder.

CONTACT

Roger Muggleton
hzk@cix.co.uk

This program is Copyright Roger Muggleton 1998.
It may be freely used without any payment.
It may also be distributed on any CD, Bulletin Board, or web site, without
any payment.


DISCLAIMER

Since RT reads and writes files, be aware that the author disclaims any
responsibility for any damage to your Series 5 files and filing system.


FUTURE RELEASES

RT can be Geofox One compatible, although this facility is not enabled. It
is my intention to enable this in the near future! I may also change the
key presses and menu to conform with the Style Guide, at the moment they
confirm to my personal taste!


HISTORY

14th June, 1998   1st B release
18th June, 1998   Bug fixes, generally faster operation.
20th June, 1998   More bug fixes, wrapping improved a little!
