DRAWING AND VIEWING PROGRAM V1.3  (SERIES 3A VERSION)
-----------------------------------------------------

Welcome to Version 1.3 of my Picture/Icon Viewer/Editor/Designer.  This 
Shareware version is fully functioning, except for the 'nag' screens, which 
can be removed on registering, and the  Save  function, which is disabled, 
and is also restored on registering.  See REGISTER.TXT for details.

This program has 3 basic components, a picture viewer, a picture editor, 
and an Icon editor. The whole program is menu driven, and an extensive on-
line context-sensitive help file is available.  Once the program has been 
installed, all the available pictures are displayed under the Icon.  The 
program works by selecting a picture in the System Screen and pressing 
<Enter>. It then enters the basic viewing mode.  If the picture selected is an 
Icon, the program will automatically jump into the  Icon Edit  mode.

Viewer Mode
-----------

This is the basic picture viewing mode. If the picture is larger than the 
screen, use the cursor keys to move around the viewing window. The 
Home, End, PgUp and PgDn keys move to the limits of the picture. The 
SHIFT key slows down the rate of movement by a factor of ten. Work 
through the menus to see the facilities available.  The File menu should be 
self-explanatory as it contains all the usual File handling commands.   The 
Special menu allows you to take a  snapshot  of the screen, and change the 
default scroll rate.  Selecting the Edit Picture menu option allows you to 
edit the picture, as will pressing the diamond key.  Selecting Edit Icon 
(or pressing Shift-Diamond), allows you to  grab  any part of the picture 
to use as an Icon.

Editor Mode
-----------

This mode allows you to edit the picture, and has all the usual tools 
available.  Look through the menus to see the facilities, a detailed 
description of each option is included later in the instructions. Whatever you 
are doing, you should find the <Esc> key will get you out of trouble.  The 
arrow keys will move the edit cursor around 10 pixels at a time.  If you hold 
the Shift key down at the same time you will move 1 pixel at a time, if you 
hold the Control key down at the same time you will  move 30 pixels at a 
time, and holding the Psion key down will send the cursor to the extremities 
of the screen/picture.  Also, pressing the Space Bar will toggle the pixel at 
the cursor position between black/clear, and the TAB key will toggle 
grey/clear.

Zoom Mode/Icon Editor
---------------------

The same basic module is used for pixel-editing a  zoomed  area of the 
picture, and for editing Icons. Various menu selections will put you into the 
pixel-editor. The on-screen instructions and menu options should be self-
explanatory. You can toggle between black/grey/clear, drawing 
black/clear/grey lines and, as with the main editor, Space bar and TAB 
toggle the pixel at the cursor position.

A description of every menu option now follows:

VIEWER SCREEN
-------------

File Menu
---------

New Picture (Psion-N)

Used to generate a new picture. You will be asked for the filename and 
destination disc, and details for the picture. At the moment, the picture size 
you can use is limited to a minimum size of 18x18 pixels, and a maximum 
size of 960x320 pixels (4 times the screen size). There is also an option for a 
'grey' plane, set this to 'No' if you only require black and white, or wish to 
make it compatible with a Series 3. Finally, the picture starts with a border 
so that it can be seen. The border can be removed by using <Psion-O> from 
the editor screen.

Open Picture (Psion-O)	

Used to load a new file. It initially offers all the files in any \PIC\ directory. 
If you wish to load a picture from another directory, simply press <Tab> 
and work through the 'tree' as covered in the manual. Note that a new file in 
a \PIC\ directory can also be loaded by highlighting it from the System 
screen.

Save Picture (Psion-S) (Not available in unregistered version)
	
Saves the file with all the changes incorporated. This option uses the same 
filename but does NOT prompt you to confirm you wish to overwrite an 
existing filename , so use with care.

Save Picture As (Psion-A) (Not available in unregistered version)

Saves the file under a different name. This option WILL prompt you if the 
file already exists. 

Revert to Saved (Psion-R)

If you have made a mess of the editing and wish to cancel the changes, use 
this option. It is actually only a short cut way of re-loading the same file.


Special Menu
------------

Register Copy (Psion-+)	

This is to allow you to enter the registration ID.  It will disappear after 
registering.

Capture Screen (Psion-C)

This command takes a 'snapshot' of the screen area and save it to a specified file.

Scroll Rate (Psion-L)

In the Viewer, the arrow keys default to moving the picture 120 pixels 
horizontally and 80 pixels vertically. Use this command to change the 
default values. Your selection will be saved in the .CFG file.

Help (Psion-H)

If the optional Help file has been included, this gives context-sensitive on-
line Help.  (Also accessible via the <Help> key)

About (Psion-*)	

Details of version and to whom program is registered.

Exit (Psion-X)

Available in all screens, to quit the program.


Diamond Menu
------------

Picture (Psion-P)

This command puts you into the editor mode, where you can make changes 
to a picture or design your own.

Icon (Psion-I)

This command allows you to use any part of the screen as an icon. Simply 
move the 'square' over the required area, press <Enter> and you will enter 
the Icon Editor using the appropriate area.


EDITOR MODE
-----------

File Menu
---------

Save Picture (Psion-S) (Not available in unregistered version)

Saves the file with all the changes incorporated. This option uses the same 
filename but does NOT prompt you to confirm you wish to overwrite an 
existing filename, so use with care.

Save Picture As (Psion-A) (Not available in unregistered version)

Saves the file under a different name. This option WILL prompt you if the 
file already exists. 

Revert to Saved (Psion-R)

If you have made a mess of the editing and wish to cancel the changes, use 
this option. It is actually only a short cut way of re-loading the same file.


Draw Menu
---------

Line Draw (Psion-L)

This mode allows you draw straight lines using the 'rubber band' technique. 
You will first be asked for the start point, then after pressing <Enter> you 
will be asked for the next point. Move the cursor to the next point and press 
<Space Bar> to fix the line and continue, or <Return> if you have finished. 
While in this mode you can still use the 'Mode' command (<Psion-M>) to 
alter the way the line is drawn. Options are the same as for gGMODE in the 
manual, ie Set, Clear, Inverted. The default is 'Set'. Use the line width 
option to set the required width (1-5 pixels). Use the diamond (or the menu 
or the appropriate hotkey) to change colour.

Box Draw (Psion-B)

This mode allows you to draw boxes of various types. It can be with just an 
outline, or filled with black, or filled with a pattern or even cleared, so as to 
block erase an area. Use the mode option (<Psion-M>)to select the required 
option. (Default is 'Outline only'). Instructions for selecting the top-left and 
bottom-right corners are given on-screen. Use the diamond key to change 
colour.

Circle Draw (Psion-Y)

This mode allows you to draw circles.  Depending on the mode selected 
(<Psion-M>), you can either draw circles that fit in a box or by specifying 
the centre and radius.  For the  Box  mode, use the same method as 
described above.  For the centre/radius mode, first you use the cursor keys 
and <Enter> to select the centre of the circle, then the right/left cursor to 
define the radius. After pressing <Enter> the circle is drawn. Unlike other 
modes, the circle can be bigger than the picture, although only the arcs 
inside the picture will be drawn. Use the Mode menu (<Psion-M>) to select 
'Set' ,'Clear',  Filled  or 'Inverted' as required. Use the diamond key to 
change colour.

Ellipse Draw (Psion-J)

This mode is exactly the same as the  circle in a box  mode, but you can 
specify a rectangle rather than be limited to a square.

Sketch Mode (Psion-K)

This gives you a  freehand  mode.  The cursor will leave a trail when it is 
moved.  Remember to hold the Shift key down if you want to move 1 pixel 
at a time.  You can switch this mode off using (Psion-K), <Esc> or 
<Enter>.


Tools Menu
----------

Text Entry (Psion-T)

This option allows you to enter Text. After selecting the start point, simply 
type in the text. Press <Enter> when complete. The 'Options' menu allows 
you to set the font, style and mode. If you wish to change the defaults use 
the 'Save as Defaults' option. Use the diamond key to change colour. Note that 
the extended character set (128-254) can be obtained by holding down the Control 
key and typing in the ASCII code.

Fill Area (Psion-Q)

This option allows you to fill an area. After selection, simply put the cross 
inside an enclosed area and press <Enter>. I haven't implemented a very 
complex fill algorithm, so you might find it takes a couple of goes to fill a 
complex area. For the best results, try and place the cross in line with the 
point of maximum height.

Copy Area (Psion-C)

This allows you to copy an area of the screen to another area. First select 
the area in the same way as when drawing a box, then select the top-left 
corner of the place where you want the area to be copied.

Move Area (Psion-V)

This is the same as the  Copy  routine, except that the original area is 
cleared.

Paste Area (Psion-P)

Once  Copy  or  Move  has been used, the area involved is copied to a 
clipboard.  This option will  Paste  a copy of the Clipboard at the cursor 
position.

Import Picture (Psion-I)

This option allows you to import another picture into your own. Simply 
select the filename, and the top-left corner of where you wish the picture 
placed.  After the picture is imported it can be moved around the screen to 
it’s final position.  Be careful when you initially position the picture, as it 
will overdraw whatever is on the screen.  When you subsequently move it, 
however, it will not overdraw.  Simplest solution is to import it into a blank 
space first, then position it later.

Export Area (Psion-+) (Not available in unregistered version)

This option allows you to save a portion of the screen as a separate .PIC file.

Zoom (Psion-Z)

This option allows you to pixel-edit the picture. Simply select the area to 
edit and press <Enter>. Instructions for editing are then given on-screen. 
You can draw both black and grey (if available) lines, clear lines, or toggle 
individual pixels.  Detailed description of the menu options are given under 
the Icon Editor list


Options Menu
------------

Resize Picture (Psion-/)

This option simply allows you to change the size of the picture.

Change Font/Style (Psion-E)

This option changes the font and style of any subsequent text operations.

Change Mode (Psion-M)

This option is to determine how lines, boxes, circles and ellipses are drawn.  
This could be, for example, a black outline, a white outline, or an inverted 
line or filled.. 

Line Width (Psion-N)

This option alters the line width, for lines, circles, ellipses and boxes. 
Selectable from 1-5 pixels. 

Change Cursor (Psion-U)

This option allows various designs and sizes of cursor.

Define Grid (Psion--)

This option allows you to define the type and size of the optional grid.

Save as Defaults (Psion-D)

The program initially defaults to the standard font, style and mode. If you 
would prefer to start up with different settings, use the appropriate option, 
then use this option to save the settings in your .CFG file.


Special Menu
------------

Border On/Off (Psion-O)

This option simply toggles a border around the picture. 

Toggle Grid (Psion-G)

This option toggles the optional Grid on and off.

Info Window (Psion-W)

This option selects the position of (or turns off) an information screen which 
appears at appropriate times to give the size of the picture, the X-Y 
coordinates of the cursor, the presence (or not) of a grey plane and, if 
appropriate, the colour selected. Your selection will be automatically saved 
in the .CFG file.

Help (Psion-H)

If the optional Help file has been included, this gives context-sensitive on-
line Help.  (Also accessible via the <Help> key)

About (Psion-*)

Details of version and to whom program is registered.

Exit (Psion-X)

Available in all screens, to quit the program.


Diamond Menu
------------

Return to Viewer (Psion-Shift-V)	

This option returns you to the basic Viewer screen. Note that the <Esc> 
key has the same effect as this option.


ZOOM MODE/ICON EDITOR
---------------------

File Menu
---------

New Icon/Picture (Psion-N)

Generate a new Icon or Picture

Open Icon/Picture (Psion-O)

Opens up a new Icon/Picture

Save Icon (Psion-S) (Not available in unregistered version)

This option saves the Icon. If you have generated a new icon from a picture, 
it will prompt you for a name. Otherwise it will just save it using the original 
filename.

Save Icon As (Psion-A) (Not available in unregistered version)

This option allows you to save the Icon under a different name.

Revert to Saved (Psion-R)

If you have made a complete mess of any editing you can use this option to 
start from scratch. Remember that this will destroy any changes made since 
the last time the 'Save' option was used. 


Special Menu 
------------

Return to Editor(Psion-Shift-V)

This option returns you to the basic Viewer screen. Note that the <Esc> 
key has the same effect as this option.

Help (Psion-H)

If the optional Help file has been included, this gives context-sensitive on-
line Help.  (Also accessible via the <Help> key)

About (Psion-*)

Details of version and to whom program is registered.

Exit (Psion-X)

Available in all screens, to quit the program.


Diamond Menu
------------

Move (Psion-M)

This option allows you to move the cursor to a specific pixel. In this mode 
you can toggle a pixel on and off using <Space bar> for black and <Tab> 
for grey (if grey plane available). This mode can also be selected by using 
the diamond key.

Clear (Psion-C)

This option allows you to clear lines of pixels. Simply move the cursor to 
draw a white (cleared) line. This mode can also be selected by using the 
diamond key.

Black (Psion-B)

This changes the colour to Black, if Grey has been previously selected. 
Again, this draws a black line if the cursor is moved. This mode can also be 
selected by using the diamond key.

Grey (Psion-G)

This changes the colour to Grey, if Black has been previously selected and 
draws a grey line. This option is only displayed if the picture being edited 
has a grey plane. This mode can also be selected by using the diamond key.


GENERAL	
-------
Within the various drawing options, you will be given sub-sets of the above 
menus, appropriate to the requirements of the mode you have selected.
