                               JBBackUp
                             Version 1.2
                           (c)JBSoft 1995-6

                                 Ё
                                 цд©
                               юбады
                                юд©
                                дды

This is a program that will back up your files to another computer in
a similar way to RBACK will from the PC. The main differences are that
the applications closed before the backup are re-opened at the end,
and there is no Archiving facility for files that have ceased to exist
on the Psion - they will remain in their present directory. There are
three main methods of backup:

     1. Files that have changed (selected using the archive bit) on
        all drives
     2. Complete backup of all files on all drives
     3. Copy Individual SSD's completely (more than one can be
        selected)

There is also the option to copy individual drives with the files that
have changed.

Other methods could be added if there is a requirement.

The Changed file variation works on the principle of the file's
archive bit being set. After transfer the archive bit is cleared. The
archive bit is set every time a file is changed or moved.

The Complete backup will transfer every file on all the SSD's and the
program resets the archive bit for the file when it transfers it. The
Individual SSD version allows you to select the SSD's you wish to
transfer - more than one disk can be selected (a tick is shown when
the drive has been selected, to deselect just press the letter again).
Again, all the files on the SSD are transferred regardless of whether
they already exist on the PC.

The opening menu gives the three options detailed above plus
Configure. This Configure allows the destination drive and directory
to be selected for each disk. This information must be given before
any other option is selected otherwise unpredictable results may
occur. For safety, even if there is no disk in the drive, it would be
best to specify the path for all drives at this point.

The file transfers can be halted at any time using Psion-Escape. This
will throw you out to the System screen with all the applications
closed down. To re-open them use the JBSTOPGO.OPO file before closing
the Link.

Unlike the RBACK Batch file in RCOM, any pre-existing file that now
does not exist on the Psion will remain in the PC directory - there is
no Archive functionality in this program at present.

The program should run with RCOM in Normal or Server mode, SLink or
MCLink running on the PC but has not been checked with MCLink (I hate
it so I've deleted it from my Hard Drive <g>).

Release History
---------------
1.0   First public release (previous versions were hard-coded for my
      system.
1.0a  Fixed problem with program not creating M:\OPD\ directory during
      configuration.
1.1   Fixed a problem with destination drives being reset to C:.
      Fixed a problem with destination drives not being set correctly
      immediately after an edit - OK after a restart.
      Added options to copy changed files for individual drives.
1.1a  Extended closedown options so that large files are dealt with
      correctly.
1.2   Improved closedown and re-opening further to err on the side of
      caution.

Contact
-------
John Boyce
CompuServe: 100014,1240
CIX/Internet: jboyce@cix.compulink.co.uk

                                                         14 March 1996