Psion Boggel! - The Ultimate Word Game

This game is very similar to the classic version but includes a link to 
the Psion Speller for looking up words or challenging your opponent's
bogus ones. Instead of playing mindless games while traveling, working,
killing time, why not improve your vocabulary while you are having fun. 

After the timer has run out, it eliminates duplicate words - even your own!
Up to 8 players. Perfect for car trips - please don't let the driver play. 
Scores are reported at end and each player may view their statistics.

INSTALLATION

Copy SETUP.OPO and BOGGEL.OPO to the \OPO directory on your Psion. 

If Boggel appears (under the OPL balloon), just press Enter to run it. 
If not, push System twice to refresh menu. Press Psion-J & install RunOPL.

Notes:
SETUP.DBF is created automatically if it does not already exist in \DAT.
SETUP files are shared by all Protronics apps & are needed to run Boggel. 
You can delete SETUP.DBF at any time, but will lose any custom settings.
Boggel requires only 6K of storage space.

PLAYING THE GAME

Make as many words as possible! You have 2 minutes. Letters may run up, 
down, left, right, or diagonal. Scoring is exponential so you get major
points for long words. An 8-letter word is worth 32 points, 2^(8-3),
where a 3-letter word is worth only 1 point, 2^(3-3). Up to 8 players. 
Press Enter or Spacebar to enter a new word. If you are done before time
is up, choose Give Up from the Menu. To pause, press Menu or Ctrl-S. If
you don't like your Boggle letters, choose New from the Menu.

Boggel scans player entries (even your own) for duplicates & removes them.
If you would like to replay a game, record the Game # from the About screen
and choose New from the Menu. Good games include 1902958, 4, 17. 

If you choose Setup from the menu, you may change all settings except for
Seconds (the timer). You can only change Seconds if you register. The
board style may be set to 1 or 0. The rest is self-explanatory. You must
reload Boggel after running Setup.

REGISTERED USERS

This game is very similar to the classic version but includes a link to
Psion Speller for challenging a friend's bogus words or checking your own.
In the registered version, you can have more time, make words longer 
than 10 letters, and review your opponent's lists of words.

To look up a word during you turn, choose Challenge from the Menu. 
For every ten words you enter, you may look up one word you are unsure
of without losing time off the clock.

The next release will find all the words you missed & review their meaning. 
Please register. You will receive free updates automatically via e-mail as 
well as the full version of the upcoming release of Psion Scrabbel.

TO REGISTER

Send us a $25 registration fee, and you will receive your updated
software via e-mail over the Internet (uuencoded) or CompuServe (zipped).
You'll be on our list for new releases & receive free updates for life. 
Cash or check, money order, or local currency (last resort) are accepted.

CompuServe users may register with a credit card: GO SWREG, ID 13745
Registered users get free e-mail updates for the life of the product.
Our new Web Site: http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/protronics

Permanent Address: Protronics SSI, PO Box 120055, San Antonio TX 78212 USA
Software(c)1996 PROTRONICS USA 404-351-1055 71021.1544@compuserve.com
