Psion Organize! - Take Control of Your Time and Your Life

Organize! is an electronic filing cabinet for your brain. It divides your
life into 8 balanced areas: Career, Family, Health, Info, Mental, People,
Spirit, and Wealth. If your life is somewhat more complex, you can add
more, or if your philosophy is KISS (Keep It Simple Silly), you can
consolidate Career & Wealth into Business, Family & People into Personal,
Mental & Spirit into Intellectual, and Health & Info into Physical.
Specific, well-planned goals can help create a healthy & happy life.

Each category has 15 common subcategories including Goals (broken into
Everday, Vital, Short/Mid/Long term, & Ultimate), Achievements, Bright 
Ideas, Changes, Edge on Life, Misc, Projects, Rules, Thoughts, & Wisdom.
Each also has 8-12 topic specific subcategories including ideas on Money, 
Longevity, Travel, Dating, Jokes, Computing, Learning, Dreams, Mentoring, 
Psychology, and Sex.

Psion Dialer 2.6 w/ Voice, 3FAX

FLASH! - Psion Series 3A/3C users can now dial the phone via a modem or 
the speaker. Dialer turns your Psion into a lean mean dialin' machine.

This powerful utility that will save you precious time when looking
up numbers and dialing the phone. It works by searching all data files 
(unlimited) for a partial match and dials using the speaker or a modem,
without ever opening the database app. Profiles can be set up for home,
office, & travel with local, long distance, & calling card prefixes & 
suffixes. Local area codes are stripped automatically eliminating the
need to enter numbers twice for long distance vs. local calling.

Dialer (c)1996 PROTRONICS USA 404-351-1055 71021.1544@compuserve.com
CompuServe/overseas users may register online: GO SWREG  (ID is 7768)

Psion Agents

REMIND includes hundreds of home, health, office, car, computer, shopping,
and self-help tips. Never again will you forget your annual checkup, quarterly 
oil change, monthly bill payments, or weekly backup. 

Powerup started as a simple routine that plays a .WVE file each time you 
turn on your Psion. The default sound is the tricorder from the original 
Star Trek. Some rather nifty features have been added ...

Powerup also records a quick message, bypassing security, if you hold down 
the <Esc> key when powering up. The Psion will beep and record a 5 second 
message to REC01.WVE, REC02, REC03, etc. You can press Space to end the 
recording early. The next time you turn on the Psion, your reminder will 
be played. Holding down Ctrl-<Esc> when powering up will go to the Powerup 
screen after you enter your password. Here you can record, play, & erase 
recordings quickly by pressing 1, 2, 3, etc. This is perfect for quick 
messages in the car, in the dark, in bed, or when you are pressed for time.

Powerup & Hourly will NOT drain your batteries and do NOT slow down your 
processor while running in background; playing long WAV files will. Use 
rechargeables. Memory is 8KB. Enjoy! 

Other utilities include Timekeeper which includes a full screen 
clock/calendar, a non-agenda alarm system, and a stopwatch/billing timer
that automatically posts billing results to your spreadsheet. Keyboard
allows you to use a full-size keyboard to type on your Psion.

Psion Watchdog 1.1 Home Security/Intruder Detection

Watchdog is a home security program that monitors your home for intruders
and ambient noises. When a sound is detected a Wave file is played (dog's
bark, police siren, "I've got a gun", etc). Watchdog can also be used
to monitor a baby's room and play a lullaby or a mother's voice when
crying is heard. The sound threshold and wave file played can be
adjusted and the next version will be able to call a macro, page you
and replay to sound (requires 3FAX), or launch an application. Also
has great potential for playing pratical jokes on friends & loved ones.

We are working on a simple speech recognition app for speed dialing
and a text to speech util that will give the Psion 3A/3C a spoken agenda, 
document reader, more personality, and other capabilities. We are also
completing an app to silence/snooze Agenda alarms using voice commands.
No longer will you need to dig out your Psion to quiet an alarm. Just
tell it to shut up, without even taking it out of the case. This killer
app can also launch macros, programs, check e-mail, or beep your pager.

Send us a $25 registration fee, and you will receive all of the above 
products via e-mail over the Internet (uuencoded) or CompuServe (zipped).
You'll be on our list for new releases & receive free updates for life. 
Cash or check, money order, or local currency (last resort) are accepted.

Get on the list. It doesn't matter if you can live without one of our
Psion utils now, sooner or later, you won't be able to. We've got the 
coolest apps in town.

CompuServe/overseas users may register online: GO SWREG  (ID is 7768)
Registered users get free e-mail updates for the life of the product.
Our new Web Site: http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/protronics

Permanent Address: Protronics SSI, PO Box 120055, San Antonio TX 78212 USA
Software(c)1996 PROTRONICS USA  (404) 351-1055 71021.1544@compuserve.com
