                              JB5StopGo
                            Version 1.1.9
                            (c)JBSoft 1998

                                 Ё
                                 цд©
                               юбады
                                юд©
                                дды


Overview
--------
JB5StopGo is a program to automate the closing and reopening of your
applications when preparing to backup to the main computer. It will
close all running programs and start the Link or, if the Link is
already running, will close the Link and restart the programs closed
beforehand. There is also an option to run a program to work with the
Link and one to specify programs not to close.

New to this version is a setup which should allow operation on all
language machines.

Installation
------------
If using PsiWin 2.x within Windows then just click on the
JB5STOPGO.SIS. The program will appear in the "normal" Extras Bar
after the installation. If installing from somewhere other than
Windows then you will need to obtain INS_TE.EXE and install that on
your EPOC32 machine. This will enable .SIS files to be installed only
using the EPOC32 machine.

An OPX that is required for the application (SysRAM1.OPX) is also
installed automatically. The SIS file has only been included for
completeness should there be a problem with another application when
de-installing JB5StopGo.

The first time the program is run it is necessary to give some
information so that the program works correctly on your machine. The
questions that need answers are...


     Ч The key combination required from the System screen to produce
       the Link dialog (where the Link is switched on and off).
     Ч The name of the Help file and Data files - these are provided
       by using a dialog you can navigate around to highlight the
       appropriate file (on an English machine these are
       Z:\SYSTEM\DATA\HELP and Z:\SYSTEM\APPS\DATA\DATA.APP ).

This setup is only shown once - if you need to alter anything then you
will have to delete the JBSGI.INI file that is situated in the same
directory as JB5STOPGO.APP.

Notes
-----
If the Link isn't connected then things will still closedown and re-
open and set the Link accordingly.

If a program fails to respond to the Close command then, after a few
seconds (definable in Setup), a Kill command will be sent which will
close the program immediately (although any data not saved may well be
lost).

N.B. The program will close down everything so, if you have sensitive
data that must be saved it would be a good precaution to do a manual

save first unless you are sure that the timeout used will be
sufficient.

The program creates a small temporary data file in the root directory
of the Internal drive called C:\JBSGX.INI (just to explain why this
file suddenly appears). This file is deleted once the programs have
been re-opened.

N.B. It is important that the Link is started and stopped by my
program as it normally uses the Link status to decide what to do and
is also dependent on how the setup has been defined.

If the program fails for any reason then a restart of the program will
probably be the same as a re-open and you will have to run the program
a second time to close things down. You can check on this as, if the
file C:\JBSGX.INI exists, the program will always try to re-open.

Setup
-----
If the letter 'J' (on its own, not with a Fn or Ctrl key) is pressed
within two seconds of starting JBStopGo5 then you are taken to a setup
where you can specify the type of link used (Cable, InfraRed, None)
and the time that will be allowed for a program to close before a
command is sent to just kill the program. Killing the program may lose
data and cause problems later so it is best to define a period which
is likely to be safe (as an example S5Bank needs around 7 seconds to
close).

You can also choose to launch a program after the closure of the open
files - this is primarily for non-PC machines that may not have a
PsiWin type option and may allow for another program to deal with the
problem. To set this up may require some knowledge of the way the
System works so the option isn't necessarily for the fainthearted
(e.g. for an OPL program you need to choose
"z:\system\apps\opl\opl.app" as the application and the filename
should be the OPL program you wish to run).

There is also an option to specify programs not to close (this is
primarily because some programs run others when started and this may
not be a good idea at the time).

The defaults are a timeout of 10 seconds and the Cable link will be
enabled.

If all you wish to do is change the setup without running the program
then, after you have changed the setup and pressed Enter, a "Busy"
message will appear in the bottom left corner of the screen for two
seconds. Press a key during this period and the program will terminate
without closing or opening anything.

Thanks
------
Thanks are, of course, due to all beta testers but I must single out
John Woodthorpe who went above and beyond the call of duty in testing
the various versions I sent out. I would also like to especially thank
Bernd Schemmer for his help with testing on a foreign machine.

Release History
---------------
1.0     First public release
1.1     Revision for languages other than English
        Added a message for when the re-opening was completed
        Added the possibility to not close specified programs
1.1.1   Added the option to choose to kill programs
1.1.4   Changed the opening slightly so that programs like Navigator
        opened better.
1.1.5   Not intercepts deleted program files so the computer doesn't
        hang.
1.1.6   Temporary files now created only on C: drive.
1.1.8   Fixed a problem with lauching Macro5.
        Now installs everything with one click.
1.1.9   Different method of getting System name so that French
        machines will work correctly.

Contact
-------
John Boyce
  CompuServe:
100014,1240
         CIX:
jboyce
    Internet:
john@jbsoft.c
ix.co.uk