 ------------------------------- NoRev v1.4 ---------------------------------
                                                                                 
    THIS PROGRAM IS NOT SHAREWARE - DUE TO IT'S NATURE IT HAS THE MAIN 
    FUNCTIONS DISABLED UNTIL REGISTERED.


 NoRev is a program which will prevent the reverse translation of OPL object
 code (OPO/OPA) APP files which originated as OPL can also be protected but
 'C' programs cannot.

 The actual means of doing this, as well as allowing access to the protect
 and unprotect functions is reserved for licensed users. This is to help
 protect the software which has been protected by this method. Minor program
 alterations will be required to affect the protection and so you must have
 access to the original (or reverse translated) source code.

 NoRev is licensed on a what you see if what you get basis, it currently
 avoids reverse translation by REVTRAN V3.3 and below, but future protection
 can not be guaranteed.


 IMPORTANT INFORMATION:

 NoRev while having been tested on several machines can not be guaranteed
 to work on your setup. No warranties are given and the software is 
 supplied on an as-is basis. It's use for any specific purpose is not
 implied.

 NoRev will only function on machines where the owner name (PSION-P from the
 system screen) has been completed, and so is not normally suitable for the
 emulator unless this information has been re-entered upon entry.


 USE OF NOREV:

 NOREV is not sharware, only registered users are allowed to run the 
 program and the following terms and conditions are assummed to have been
 agreed to

 a) The program shall be registered by submitting the appropriate fee
 b) The registration code given shall not be divulged to other parties
 c) The means of protection is not to be divulged to other parties

 These conditions have been relaxed since the prior version :-

  - the distribution of commercial software is now allowed without
    prior approval.
  - Registered owners may protect code written by other parties.

 REGISTRATION:

 registration can be made by sending a cheque for œ10 payable to myself to
 the address below (or via compuserve SWREG) :

          Raymond Stone
          C/O Galactic Computing Ltd
          27 Golf Road
          Cruden Bay
          AB42 0QF

 Once registered you will be supplied with a code which will allow the 
 protection and unprotection of your own code.

 THE CODE SUPPLIED IS UNIQUE. NO OTHER USERS CAN UNPROTECT YOUR CODE.

 Support is available via the following mediums
      Post       - at above address
      Internet   - raymond@raymie.demon.co.uk
      CompuServe - 100573,2051@compuserve.com

 INSTALLATION:

 Copy the following files to the specified directories on any drive

 NOREV14.OPA      ->    /APP/
 RJSLIB2.LIB      ->    /RJS/   (or can be in the /OPO directory).
 NOREV.RSC        ->    /RJS/    Optional help file

 and install NOREV14 in the usual manner.



Changes since version 1.3

- Speed, the program is now MUCH faster to run.

- Output file, the protected file is now the 'original file'. The file
  you wish protected is renamed as NOREV.DAT in the root of the internal
  disk and NOREV's output file has the same name as the inputs file name
  was originally.

- Help screens removed and replaced by 'normal' help system.

- Error in registration key generation corrected. This should not affect
  many registered users but if it does please get in touch for a new code
  to be supplied. (I know who has registered but not their addresses, due
  to the sensitive nature of passwords I will require the former password
  to be supplied for validation purposes before issuing replacements).

- RJSLIB2 now used, you can removed RJSLIB1 totally. This is to maintain
  compatibility with XFILE which also uses this enhanced library file.


----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        (c) 1994-1996 R Stone
----------------------------------------------------------------------------







