PSI-TACT

PSIon-ConTACT


Categories:

Here is a complete list of categories in the following file. I have
put this in because if you are anything like me you will hate reading
large word files and just wish to do a find on the part that you want
to know about. When doing a find include the quotes around the word.

 "Macros" 
 "Installation"
 "Essential Files"
 "Non-Essential Files"
 "German Users"
 "American Users"
 "Getting Started"
 "Overview"
 "Menu's"
 "Moving Files"
 "Registration"
 "Tab"
 "Extra's"
 "Warning"
 "Mail Me"
 "Credits"
 
All of the Menu functions have been explained. If you wish to find out
about a particular function then do a find on what ever the menu title
says in the Psi-Tact screen.


"Macros"
If you have read the Readme.1st file you should now be aware of Macsys
and understand why there are macro files in this zip. It is NOT
necessary to install the Macro application or any of my Macro's into
the Macro file. Psi-Tact has in built code to find the macro's as long
as they are in the correct directories, they will work as long as
Psi-Tact detects the presence of the Macro app. (This can be on any
disc.) 
For manual installation place the following into their
appropriate directories. (If any of the following files are missing,
then please report it to me stating when and where you got the zip
file from.)

"Essential files"

þ Psitact.opa into \app 
þ JbSortB.img into m:\app
þ Agend.dbf into m:\dat
þ Find.mco into \macro\mco
þ Fillagn.mco into \macro\mco  
þ Agnfind.mco into \macro\mco


"Non-essential files"

þ Psitact.rsc into \opd (Help File)
þ Agnrun.mco into \macro\mco
þ Sendcon.mco into \macro\mco
þ Route.mco into \macro\mco


"German Users"
I have created separate macro's for German Psions, so if you use a
German Psion please contact me and I will send them to you. Please
state which version you are using plus which mail file attachment
method you can receive i.e Uuencode or Mime.

"American Users"
I have created separate macro's for American users, these macro's use
the standard US date format i.e Month; Day; Year. Please contact me
and I will send them to you.
Please state which version you are using plus which mail file
attachment method you can receive i.e Uuencode or Mime.


"Getting Started"

Return to the system screen and install Psitact.opa, in the usual
manner. (Psion I and left or right arrow till you find Psitact.opa,
and then press enter.)
Once installed enter Psitact. You will be presented with a dialog to
complete, it is essential for you to select the Agenda file that you
wish Psitact to work from. Once completed Press Enter.
You are now in PSI-TACT. 
You can press Help at any stage for full in depth help files.
My advice now, is to press Menu and just scan through the menu options
familiarising yourself with all of the options.

"Overview"
Psi-Tact was initially designed with two ideas in mind. Firstly a
Psion Management program and secondly a Contact Management program. 
It was never meant to be one or the other, it has and always will be
my opinion that the software already on the Psion is the very best
available. The only thing missing was some way to tie them altogether.
This is where Psi-Tact comes in. I have taken this theory one step
further by creating links to some of the very best Psion Shareware,
plus not forgetting of course the Psion add on programs such as 3Fax
and Autoroute. Psi-Tact enables users to create databases of contacts
and at a touch create an Agenda entry pertaining to a contact, it can
search Agenda for contacts or entries. It is Agenda that controls the
Contact Management part however it is Psi-Tact (assisted with the aid
of Macsys) which searches your Agenda.
There are many other functions that Psi-Tact does including linking
contacts directly to Multiple Word files plus Spreadsheet files. 

If you have any ideas for improvements or enhancements please mail me
at one of the addresses below. I am always willing to make
improvements.


"Menu's"

Files Menu:

þ New File:
Psi-Tact is a type three application, it uses different configuration
files, you have already inadvertently created one as soon as you
entered the program. Psi-Tact now supports multiple files, which means
you can have more than one open at any time. Each differently named
database creates  matching configuration files in the \opd and the
\ctc\set. The first menu option is New File, this will create and open
a new database file, closing down the one you were just using.

þ Open File:
Opens other database files, closing down the existing file.

þ Merge In:
This option will allow you to merge in existing databases into
Psi-Tact files. Unfortunately at this stage there is no way for
Psi-Tact to read the labels of any databases that you are merging
from. 
(P.S Anybody who shows me how to do this properly and easily will
qualify for a free registration of Psi-Tact)

þ Sort File:
This procedure is supplied freely by John Boyce. Many thanks go to
John for all his help. 
The Sort procedure uses the file JBsortB.img which should be kept in
the app directory on the Internal drive. 
 
þ Export File:
Exports Contacts to Word or Text files.
Options include:
Export all Contacts, Current Contact or Tagged Contacts. To tag a
contact press "+" when the contact you wish to tag is visible. You can
also choose which fields you wish to export.
This function can be used if you wish to copy your Psi-Tact databases
into the Data application. 
However to do this you must first export to Word and then go into Data
and use Merge to merge the word file into the Data file.

þ Open Expansion:
Each Contact can be expanded, therefore attaching another database to
a contact. Expanded files are not visible from the system screen.

þ Upper Level:
You can return from an Expanded file to it's parent file by selecting
this. The first time you use this function you will be presented with
a dialog asking you to select the Upper File. From then on the process
will be automatic. 

Edit Menu:
These options should all be self explanatory.

þ Add:
Adds a Contact to the file

þ Edit:
Updates a Contact

þ Delete:
Deletes a Contact

þ Edit Expansion:
This option will allow you to alter the file that has been selected as
an expanded file for a certain contact.

þ Edit Upper Level:
Allows you to change the Upper Level file.

Search Menu

þ Find:
Enter search string to find.

þ Find Next:
Finds the next contact from the given search string.

þ Find Previous:
Finds the previous contact from the search string.

þ Jump to entry:
Each Contact is numbered, this will jump to a certain number if you so
wish.

þ Find by Field:
Finding is limited to certain fields and can be case dependent. Handy
for quicker searching. Using the preferences option it is possible to
set which fields you would like this function to work from. This
function is restricted to searching only 14 fields. Unfortunately
there is no way this can be changed. 

þ Find In Data:
This uses a Macro to present a dialog for you to insert some text to
find in any Data file. By default the dialog brings the current
Contacts  name, but you can write over it if you wish.

Create Menu

þ E-Mail:
This function is compatible with the main three Psion E-Mail programs.
These (if you didn't know) are:
1. Psi-Mail Internet
2. ReadCiS
3. ReadCiX
It is possible, using the "Set preferences" to set Psi-Tact to
automatically launch Psi-Mail Internet when this option is
chosen. Otherwise a dialog will pop up with the following options.

Address: Brings the Contacts email address.
Subject: Fill in a subject.
Autosig: Yes or No. (This will add a signature to your mail.)
Edit Sig: Edits Auto Signature
Use: ReadCiS, ReadCiX, Psi-mail Internet. 
Choose which program to write the e-mail to, if you choose Psi-Mail
internet it will be automatically launched. Psi-Tact can NOT bring any
information for use in this program. To use either ReadCiX or ReadCiS,
press enter and write your message. All of the necessary dialog
information will be
used when using either of these two options. 
When you have finished just exit in the usual way (Psion x) and you
will be returned to Psi-Tact, the mail will be ready to be sent next
time you go on line.
For the ReadCiS option Readcis.opa must be in \app\readcis. Also a
point to note, remember only one outgoing mail can be sent with the
unregistered version of ReadCiS. This program does not overcome or
does not attempt to overcome this situation. Please register ReadCiS
to receive the full benefit of this function.
(Many thanks goes to John Boyce, once again, for the code necessary to
convert the written mail into the correct format.)

þ Letter:
When first used for a particular contact this option will present you
with a dialog for storing the contacts letters in. Then another dialog
will appear with some options that are available for the letter
itself.
These options are:
Letter Name: i.e File name
Name & Address: This option will let you choose whether to insert the
current contacts name and address into the letter.
Start with: This is a choice of how you want the letter to start. i.e
With Dear Sir,
Dear Sir or Madam, Dear Mrs etc...
Addressed to:  This is the name to insert after the Dear Sir. By
default the current contacts name is
brought into the dialog but this is fully editable.
Include Signed by: This option is a choice whether or not to include
the "Yours faithfully" or "Yours sincerely" plus your name at the foot
of the letter.
Use Template: If "Yes" is chosen, another dialog will prompt you for
the template name, when the letter is created it will
use the template that you selected. 
When using the Template option it will NOT bring any of the current
contacts address information.
On pressing enter the letter will be created. Each Contact can have up
to 21 letters attached.

þ Note:
Enables you to create Notes for a certain Contact. (Uses Word
application.) 
A dialog will be presented prompting you whether you want to bring an
existing file or not.
You can select from four "Bring File" choices. 
1. A word file. 
Opens a note bringing the text from a current word file.
2. A template file.
This copies any templates that you have in the \wdr.
3. ReadCiS incoming mail file.
This will open a note bringing the file Mail!.cis from the \cis. This
is so that you can record received email from a certain contact.
4. ReadCiX Archive File.
This will bring the file archive.txt. Again this is so that you keep
any email from a contact. When in ReadCiX just archive the mail in the
usual manor.
If you choose not to bring a file, a Word file will be created, the
file will automatically have the date and the current time inserted.
The first four notes for the Contact will be recorded and can easily
be viewed from the View Note menu option. Once you have created your
first note for that Contact, you will see that there is on screen
reminder of the note. 
There are other menu options to view and delete old Notes.

þ Fax:
This option will open Psion 3 Fax and Psi-Fax files. It will not be
seen if you do not have the correct software.

þ Agenda Entry:
Uses a macsys macro to make an appointment in your chosen Agenda file.
On selection, will pop up a dialog bringing the current contacts first
two fields. Initially these are set to bring the contacts Name and the
Company but you may have edited the fields, choose which of the fields
you would like to write the Agenda entry for. 
You will then be presented with another dialog where you will see the
chosen field plus several other options. 
These include:
View:- You can select which Agenda view you would like to write to.
Timed Entry:- You have a choice of timed or an untimed entry.
A timed entry will stop in Agenda and allow you to insert the time, an
un-timed entry will open your Agenda insert the text, then it will
offer a dialog of whether or not you wish to close your agenda file.
Entry code:- For un-timed messages you can choose whether to add an
"Entry code" to your message. For timed messages you will have to
insert the entry code yourself when the dialog appears.
Choose Text:- Here you can select a small piece of text to write to
the Agenda file.
The file "Loc::m:\dat\Agend.dbf" is the file that holds the text on
the "Choose Text"  line, therefore if you want to alter the text you
can edit this file. The database (agend.dbf) must only hold 1 record,
but Psi-Tact will read the first twenty fields of this record.
This file can be edited from the "Set Preferences" menu option.
Edit Text:- Here you will see the field that you chose in the previous
dialog. You may edit this if you wish.
Send to Agenda:- Here there are 3 choices;
1. Send: Sends the message to Agenda
2. Log it: Which justs logs the message you just wrote to the Contacts
log. (Accessed by pressing Tab)
3. Do both of the above.

þ Link Spreadsheet:
This will allow you to actually link a spreadsheet file to a certain
contact. Use "Spreadsheet" to run the linked spreadsheet.

View Menu

þ Agenda:
This will open or run your Agenda file.

þ Note: 
Select a Note file for viewing and editing.

þ Letter:
Opens Letters for viewing and editing.

þ Database: 
Opens any Psion standard database.

þ Spreadsheet:
Each Contact within each file can be linked to a spreadsheet file,
using the "Link Spreadsheet" option. This option will open the linked
spreadsheet file.

Special Menu

þ User:
Edit your personal information, also allows you to change your Agenda
file.

þ Toggle Zoom:
Swaps between ten available font levels.

þ Set Preferences:
This option pops up another menu with several options.
1. Default View:
This option will allow you to set two extra start up
defaults. These are Labels Hide or Show plus initial start up screen. 
2. Preferences
This will allow you to set a font via its name and set a Status window
setting. (Settings altered with Psion z and Control-Menu will be kept
on exit.) Also in this dialog is the Sound dialling configuration. Use
this to alter the dial tone, delay and pause time.
(Please note Status Window will default back to on if you are not a
Registered User when you exit the program.)
3. Screen 5:
This option allows you to set which fields you would like to see in
screen five.
4. Find by Field:
This will allow you to choose which fields you wish Psi-Tact to search
in when using the "Find by Field" main menu option. This is restricted
to 14 fields.
5. Psi-Mail Internet:
Set Psi-Mail Internet to auto run when the email option is chosen.
6. Labels:
This option will allow you to edit the two labels that Psi-Tact does
not use in screen one, plus the two in screen two plus all of the
labels in screen 3. 
The other labels can not be edited as they are used by Psi-Tacts
functions.
7. Agenda Database:
This option will open the Agenda Database. This database holds the
text that is seen on the "Choose Text" line when creating an Agenda
entry.
8. Contact's Log:
Edits the small log that is accessed by pressing Tab
9. Dial Settings:
This function has several options. 
Firstly you can enter your telephone area dialling code. If an area
code is entered when Psi-Tact dials out it will omit the area code
should the Contact be in the same area as your code.
Secondly you can choose whether to use a dial out code. 
Thirdly you can select Credit or Charge card dialling. If you wish to
use this option then it should be quite self-explanatory.
Fourthly there is an option to "Auto add 1" to the dialling. This has
only been included for U.S users who need to add the number "1" when
dialling out of area code numbers. The "1" will only be added if you
are dialling a number that does not have the same area code as
yourself.
10. U.K/U.S Labels: This will let you swap the Town, County & Postcode
labels to City, State & Zip.

þ Set Reminder:
This will allow you to set an alarm to remind you of a certain event.
User's of Pelican's Alarm Server will not see this function.

þ Alarm:
This option will only be seen if Psi-Tact finds the Pelican Alarm
Server. (Server.opa)
It allows you to write alarms directly to the Server. (Many thanks to
Mark Esposito of Pelican Software for the code for this function).

þ Jump to Server: 
This option will Jump to the Alarm Server, unfortunately there is no
way to jump back from the Alarm Server.
(Feel free to mail Pelican Software to see if they can incorporate a
jump back.)

þ Run Macro:
This option will allow you to run selected macro's. It will NOT run
macro's that require dialogs to pop up. It will run the extra macro's
that I have supplied. These are:
A: Sendcon.mco:  Sends the current contact to a database of your
choice.
B: Route.mco: Searches Autoroute for the current contacts town.
C: Find.mco Finds the current contact in a database.
D: Agnrun.mco Jumps to a specific date in your Agenda file.

For further information on Macro's and how to use Macsys you will have
to download the full Macsys.zip program from the usual sources or
contact me by email (tsteven@psionworld.net) or contact Tom Dolbilin
(72730.1176@compuserve.com) the author of Macsys.

þ Exit:
Exits program.

System Menu

þ Register:
I was originally going to make several options restricted to
unregistered users. But (on advice) decided against the idea and
therefore just made two functions unavailable plus nag screens on
entry and exit.
Please Register to remove the nag screens.
Registering promotes shareware and will encourage me to update this
program. All updates will be free of charge to registered users.
(N.B I do not guarantee to update this program at all, but crossing my
palm with silver will help :-))  )
Please be aware that several functions will only work with Macsys and
the ReadCiS E-mail procedure will only work with ReadCiS, please bear
this in mind before you send me any money. I do not give refunds.
Once you have registered I will send you the two codes necessary to
unlock all of the features that Psi-Tact has. 
Please do a find on the word "Registration" for further details of
registration.

þ Expand Contact:
Each Contact is expandable into another file, this will offer a dialog
to create the expanded file. Use "Open Expansion" to run the expanded
file. 

þ Check Agenda Entries:
This menu function is unavailable to Unregistered Users. However you
can run it from the "Run Macro" menu option. Just choose the file
"Agnfind.mco" to run. 
This again use Macsys to check for your appointments.
This option has four find options.
1. Search for the text that you have entered in the first field of the
database. Which was initially the "Name" of the contact.
2.  Search for the text that you have entered in the second field of
the database. Which was initially the "Company" for the contact.
3. Check for a Psi-Tact created appointment
Psi-Tact appointments have the symbol ~ in front of them.
4. Check for your own text.
If you opt for "Edit own"  a further dialog will appear where you can 
enter some text to find. You have the option whether to search the
whole agenda or from the current day, plus you can search in different
views. This procedure is much faster if you leave your Agenda file
open.

þ Delete Note:
Delete's any of the Notes that have been created.

þ Delete Letter:
As for Notes above, except uses Letter files.

"Extra's"

þ Psion-Help:
Brings Contacts phones numbers for dialling. Will dial through the
modem. On the Psion 3c this option will cause an error if the modem is
not present. I will endeavour to overcome this problem as soon as
possible. The options were to put up with it or leave out 3c dialling.
If you wish to use Sound dialling on the 3c then just turn the Link On
and this will enable Psi-Tact to dial out by the Sound.
Offers a Call List on completion. Call List has three options:
1. Note: On selection the Note dialog will appear, enabling you to log
details of the call to a note.
2. Time Call: Will time the call for you. If chosen a further dialog
will appear. Press Escape or Enter to start the timer. On finishing
the call, press S to stop the timer, you will then be able to log the
call to the Note's if you wish. (The duration of the call is not
logged to the new Note.)
Pressing P while the timer is running will pause the timer. Once
pressed you can re-start the timer or re-set it.
3. Re-Dial: This will re-dial the number for you.

þ Control-Menu:
Remove or return the status window.
(Registered Users Only)

þ Help:
Full in depth Psion Help file.

þ "Tab":
Pops up a new complete information dialog. This new dialog is an
information screen in itself. Some of Psi-Tacts function will still
work whilst this screen is displayed. However it is not necessary to
press the Psion or Shift keys to activate the functions. These actions
and keys are as follows:
J- Brings up the Jump to dialog.
F- Brings up the Find Dialog.
G- Finds the Next string.
P- Finds the previous search string.
D- Pops up the dialling dialog.
Space Bar- Also pops up the Find Dialog.
Left and Right arrow keys- Scrolls through Database.

The following actions are shown via buttons on this screen.

A- Create an Agenda entry.   
N- Go to the Contacts Notes. 
S- Run any attached Spreadsheet. 
L- Select from the Contacts Letters. 
E- Edit an information quick Log.

Other information shown on this new screen are as follows:

-The Contacts first two fields.
-The Contacts Work and Fax numbers.
-The small log note.
-The current Date and Time. (3c only)

þ Space bar:
Brings up the "Find" dialog.

þ Enter:
Scrolls through Contacts.

þ Shift-Enter:
Scrolls backwards.

þ Numbers 1 to 6 go to Screen 1 to 6.

þ Letter keys jump to the first contact in the file beginning with
that letter.

þ "Moving Files":
Psi-Tact will work perfectly well if you wish to move files to other
discs. But the small macro's must stay on the same drive as
Psitact.opa. The JbSortB.img file must also stay on the M drive. If
you move files and then experience errors please report them to me at
once. Diamond key toggles between the main views and the list view.

"Registration"

There are several ways to register Psi-Tact. The standard price is
œ15. However some payment methods are more expensive than others.
These increases are due to costs that I will be charged.

þ By Sterling cheque:

Please send œ15.00 :
Made payable to: Tony Crocker to the following address:
10, Doyle Close
Drummond Park
Erith
Kent
DA8 3QT
England

þ By Compuserve SWREG No: 14602. For this method you will be charged
$25.00

þ By U.S.A Cheque:

Please send $25.00 :
Made payable to: "American Express" to the following address:
10, Doyle Close
Drummond Park
Erith
Kent
DA8 3QT
England

þ Alternatively this program can be registered by RegNet. The
Registration Network. RegNet can be reached on the WWW at the
following URL:
http://swregnet.com  or by calling
1 800 WWW2REG (1 800 999-2734) or (805) 288-1827
The specific page for Psi-Tact registration is:
http://swregnet.com/957p.htm

This method will cost you $37.00
(This is for credit card payments only)

"Mail Me"
Please report any bugs or comments to:
tsteven@cix.co.uk
or
100676.2664@compuserve.com
or
tsteven@psionworld.net

P.S This is my first fully released shareware application, go easy on
me. :-))

Thanks again.
Tony Crocker

"WARNING"!!
As PSI-TACT uses standard database files it is possible to open data
files in the \dat, by using TAB from the Open File menu option. My
advice is to merge in the data file that is in the \dat into the \ctc
that PSI-TACT uses,  that way you will not corrupt or alter your
existing data files. If you do open the data files that are in \dat,
BE WARNED if you try to link or expand the contacts, the data record
will be written to. PSI-TACT will overwrite any information that is
currently held in the 14th to 30th fields. 
I take no RESPONSIBILITY for LOSS of DATA or malfunction caused whilst
using PSI-TACT, whether registered or not. 
!!USE AT YOUR OWN RISK!!

"CREDITS":
Thanks to Chris Farrow (cxf@cix) for all his help, no doubt I have
tried his patience once or twice.
Thanks to John Boyce (Jbsoft) for the code for converting word files
to a format suitable for ReadCiX and ReadCiS as well as the code for
the sort routine.
Thanks to Tom Dolbilin (72730.1176@compuserve.com) for the most
excellent Macsys. 
Thanks to Mark Esposito of Pelican Software for the code to access the
Alarm Server.
Thanks to David Keppler for allowing me to use some of his work for
the E-Mail procedure.
Thanks to my ALPHA TESTER: David Griffiths (dagriffiths@cix). Whose
help was invaluable in the shaping of Psi-Tact into the program it is.
(Blame him, not me!)
And finally thanks to my BETA TESTER Ted Jones (tj@cix)														
