                        Outline

A shareware outliner for the Psion Series 3.

Disclaimer
==========
        No warranty is given on this program. No liability for any 
        damage or loss to equipment, data or software will be 
        assumed.  You use this program at your own risk

Money
=====
        The OUTLINE program is shareware.  If you like it and use it 
        after 14 days, you should send me œ10.  This will ease your 
        conscience and my overdraft.  I will send you a small file to 
        disable the "nag" screens and show you as a registered user 
        on the About screen.  If you do not have an email id, then 
        please ensure I have your name and address and state whether you
        have a 3.5 or 5.25 inch diskette drive (PCs only I'm afraid).
        
        Updates, bug-fixes etc. will be available from the lexsoft/todo 
	conference on CIX.  
        
Errors
======
        I don't know of any outstanding bugs (unless listed at the 
        end of this document) but as with any piece of software I'm 
        sure there are some.

        The program's error handler attempts to save the current file 
        as ERROR.OUT before collapsing in the proverbial heap.  Check 
        this file out if an error occurs.  If it appears ok copy it 
        over your original file and continue.  Please let me know of 
        any errors.

Distribution
============
        This package may be freely copied, distributed as shareware so 
        long as the contents remain intact and are not tampered with in
        any way.

        The ZIP file should contain:
                OUTLINE.FON
                OUTNORM.FON
                OUTLINE.INI
                OUTLINE.APP
                OUTLINE1.OPA
                OUTLINE2.OPA
                OUTLINE.TXT (this file)


INTRODUCTION

Outline is a program for the Psion Series 3 that allows you to 
organise your thoughts into tree-like structures.   It is very useful 
for structuring ideas or for structuring reports, meetings or 
speeches.  

Type in your ideas and then move the lines around to form a tree 
structure with detailed items organised under major items.  Branches 
of this tree can be hidden or shown, moved to other branches etc. 

If you have not used an outliner before, don't worry, it will soon 
become clear.

Similar facilities are available in most modern PC word 
processors as well as dedicated PC outlining tools such as 
PC-Outline.  The impetus for writing this program was to replace 
the very useful Sharp IQ outliner when I moved to a Psion 
Series 3.

I would be pleased to hear from anyone with ideas for enhancing
the program or from anybody who, unfortunately, finds any bugs.


INSTALLATION 

Copy the OPA files to an APP directory or another directory of 
your choice on any drive.  Install the program by pressing Psion-I on 
the System display, find OUTLINE and pressing Enter.  Outline behaves 
just like Word, Data etc. by allowing multiple files to be open at 
one time.  In technical terms, it is a type 3 OPA.

Copy the two files OUTLINE.FON and OUTNORM.FON to any \OPD 
directory.

Data files are normally stored in a directory called \OUT.  
Create this on any drive. Update the display by pressing the 
System icon.  The program can then be started by pressing 
Psion-N for a new file or moving the cursor to an existing file, 
such as OUTLINE itself and pressing enter.

Outline can create a file that contains default settings to be used 
for new files.  This can be created from within the program and can be 
stored on any drive in a \OUT directory.  This file is called 
OUTLINE.INI.

Outline checks for the presence of the font files and the .ini 
file on the default drive first.  If not found there, the drives 
are searched in the order Internal, A and B until found.  This 
processing is carried out for each file so that each of these 
files may exist on a different drive.

TUTORIAL 

Creating the First Entry

        Start an outline by positioning the highlight on the Outline 
        icon and pressing Psion-N to create a new file.  Type the 
        file name "test".

        The title of the outline appears at the top of the screen as 
        "TEST".  To the left of this is a figure "1" which denotes 
        that this entry is at level one, the top level.  To the left 
        of this is the cursor (an inverse ">") which denotes the 
        current line.  Change the title by pressing Enter.  An "Edit 
        Entry" dialog box appears.  Type "Shopping List" and press 
        Enter.  The entry which previously said "TEST", now says 
        "SHOPPING LIST".

Creating the Second Entry

        Press E or Psion-E to add a new branch under the topic 
        "Shopping List".  An "Enter Line" dialog box appears.  Type 
        "Fruit" and press Enter.

        The new line is shown below the original line and you are 
        then requested to "level the entry" (depending on the options 
        settings), i.e. set the indentation level.  The new entry is 
        in the right place so just press Enter.  Lines can appear on 
        any level from 2 up to 256 so long as the parent of the entry 
        is one less. In other words, you cannot make our new entry 
        anything lower than 2. Note that only the first entry is at 
        level 1.

        Add another new line by pressing E with the cursor on the 
        "Fruit" item.  (You use the up and down arrow keys to move 
        between items).  Type "Drink" into the "Enter Line" dialog 
        box.  Level the entry such that Drink appears on the same 
        level as Fruit.

Creating More Entries

        We've decided that, in general terms, we need to buy Drink 
        and Fruit and now we're going to think in detail about which 
        goods we're going to buy.

        We need some apples so we'll add that to the list.  Position 
        the cursor to Fruit and press E.  Type "Apples" and press 
        Enter. Level "Apples" indented from Fruit by pressing the 
        right arrow key and pressing Enter.  Add Bananas, Oranges and 
        Plums in the same way, so that they all appear under Fruit.

        We need both eating and cooking apples, so move the cursor to 
        the Apples line and insert "Eating" and "Cooking" under 
        (indented from) Apples.

        Now add some drinks of your choice under "Drinks".

Viewing the Outline

        We've now got quite a long list.  To get a summary press "2". 
         This shows only items at level 2 or above.  Press "4","1" 
        and "3" to see the effect.  End up by pressing "3".

        Notice that a "+" sign appears on the Apples line. This 
        denotes that there are branches of this item which are not 
        displayed.

        Position the cursor to the Apples line and press "+".  The 
        hidden lines "Eating" and "Cooking"now appear and the plus 
        sign disappears.

        Move the cursor to the "Fruit" line and press "-".  This 
        hides the lowest branch of the Fruit "family".  Press "-" 
        again to hide the next branch up.

        So, "-" and "+" hide and show one branch level at a time.  
        The "*" and "/" keys show and hide all levels in the current 
        branch. Try them out.

That should give you an appreciation of the most basic commands.  
There are many more facilities and these are described in the 
Reference section below.


REFERENCE

In the explanations below, some terms are used which may need 
In the explaining:

Family
        A group of items forming a complete branch of the outline 
        tree.  For example;

        1 - Shopping List
          2 - Fruit
            3 - Apples
              4 - Eating
              4 - Cooking
            3 - Bananas
            3 - Oranges
          2 - Sugar
            3 - White
            3 - Brown

        In this example the "Fruit" family is the Fruit entry and all 
        other entries below "Fruit" i.e.

          2 - Fruit
            3 - Apples
              4 - Eating
              4 - Cooking
            3 - Bananas
            3 - Oranges

        The "Apples" family is:

            3 - Apples
              4 - Eating
              4 - Cooking

        A family can be just one line so "Cooking" is a family.

Parent
        The parent of a family is the entry at the head.  i.e. the 
        parent of the "Apples" family above is "Apples".  (All 
        families in OUTLINE are one-parent families!)

Up Arrow/Down Arrow
        Move the cursor to the previous or next item displayed.

E/Psion-E
        Enter a new item which will be positioned under the current 
        item.

Left Arrow/Right Arrow
        Indent or outdent (change the level of) the current 
        item.

M/Psion-M
        Move the current family.  Position the cursor on the parent 
        of the family that you wish to move.  Press Psion-M.  Then 
        position the cursor on the line after the point at which you 
        wish to move the family and press Enter.  
        
        Note that hidden items as well as displayed items are moved.

C/Psion-C
        Copy the current family.  Processing is as for Move 
        (above) except that the family is duplicated rather 
        than moved. 

D/Psion-D/<-Delete
        Delete the current family.  A warning prompt may be shown 
        depending on your options settings (see below). Note that the 
        very top level item (level 1) cannot be deleted.

L/Psion-L
        Pull lines up. Deletes the current line only.  Any child 
        lines move up one level.

Q/Psion-Q
        Push lines down. Adds a new line at the current level and 
        pushes all new child lines down.

+/Psion-+
        Show another level of the current family. (see Tutorial above)

-/Psion -
        Hide the lowest level of the current family.  (see Tutorial 
        above)

*/Psion-*
        Show the entire family.

/ Psion-/
        Hide the entire current family (except for the top most item)

Enter/U/Psion-U
        Update (edit) the text of the current item

PgUp
PgDn
        Move up and down one page at a time

S/Psion-S
        Save the file

O/Psion-O
        Open another file

N/Psion-N
        Create a new file

A/Psion-A
        Save the current file under, optionally, another name.

I/Psion-I
        About box.  Shows version number and credits.

P/Psion-P
        Prints entire outline (including all currently hidden 
        items) to a parallel or serial printer or a text file.

B/Psion-B
        Change Options.  

        There are two pages of options settings.  On the first page:

        i)   A header bar may be set on or off.  The header bar shows 
             the current date and Outline file name.

        ii)  The font may be set to Small or Normal characters.  The 
             Small character set allows more text to be displayed.

        iii) Delete Warning can be set to 0-9 or 999.  When 
             deleting a family, if the number of lines to be deleted 
             exceeds this number, a warning will be given.  O means 
             that warnings will always be given, 999 means warnings 
             will never be given.  The default is 4.

        iv)  Auto Level.  If set to "no" you will be prompted to set
             the indentation level for newly entered lines.  If set
             to "yes", Outline will attempt to put the new line at
             a sensible level.  You can, of course,always adjust this
             level.

        v)   The font for levels 1 and 2 may be set to special On or 
             Off. If special is set, the first level is printed 
             inverse and the second level (normal font only) is 
             printed bold.  Note that this only applies when the 
             Normal font is used.

        vi)  "Show Level Numbers" denotes how inverse numbers 
             denoting the level of the entry are to be displayed.  If 
             set to Off, then they don't appear at all.  If "On" they
             appear as a leader to the entry.  If "Left" they appear 
             left justified.

        On the second page:

        vii) The default characters used to denote hidden entries 
             links, and leading separator characters for levels over 9
             may be configured.

        viii)The character that denotes an associated note (see below)
             can be configured.

        ix)  The directory in which notes are stored can be set.

        All of the settings are saved with a file so that the display 
        will look the same when a file is reloaded.   The defaults 
        for new files are derived from the settings held in the 
        OUTLINE.INI file.

K/Psion-K
        Reads, if present, the OUTLINE.INI file and allows global 
        settings to be set.    As for Psion-B above except that the 
        option settings are saved in OUTLINE.INI.  The directory for 
        associated notes is not part of the OUTLINE.INI file but
        instead is always M:\OUT.

        The settings have no effect on the current file but affect 
        only new files.

Any numeric key between 1 and 9
        Sets display such that only items with a level less than 
        or equal to that keyed are shown.  i.e. pressing level 3 
        displays only items with a level of 1, 2, or 3.  Pressing 
        '9' shows all levels.

T/Psion-T
        Create a link.  A link allows you to join any two items 
        together so that you can use;

G/Psion-G
        move between two ends of a link.

H/Psion-H
        Remove Link.  Both ends of the link are removed.

,/Psion Left Arrow
        Swap family with previous family

./Psion Right Arrow
        Swap family with next family

V/Psion-V
        Revert to the latest save version of the file.  Together 
        with Save, this can be used as a form of "undo".

F/Psion-F
        This can be used as a short cut to toggle between the two font 
        sizes.

Ctrl and Psion and Up Arrow
        Go to the top of the file.

W/Psion-W
        Attach a note (Word document) to an entry. When this key
        is pressed, a dialog box will appear which will request the
        document name.  The Word application will then appear. Type
        your note using all of the usual Word functions and press 
        Psion-X when finished.  You will then be returned to Outline.

        If this key is pressed when a note has already been attached,
        you will be positioned in Word with the note open.

        All notes will be created in the directory specified in the
        Options dialogue box.  Note that if you change this directory
        after notes have been created, they will become "orphaned" 
        unless copied to the new directory.  Whenever a note is accessed
        it is assumed to be in the default directory.

Y/Psion-Y
        Delete or unlink the attached note.  A dialog box appears which
        allows the note to be deleted or merely unattached from the entry.

R/Psion-R
        Attach an existing note to an entry.  Again, the note must be in
        the default path.  By using this option, the same note can be 
        attached to multiple lines.

P/Psion-P
	Print the contents of the current file to a printer or to a file.
	You are offered the choice of Parallel connection, Serial connection 
	or File.  Another dialog box then appears where you enter the "Lead
	Character" and the List Type.  The Lead Character can be something 
	like "-", and is prefixed to all printed lines.  The List Type can
	be set to either "All" or "Displayed".  

	"All" shows the entire outline, including items currently hidden 
	from the screen display. "Displayed" prints the items currently 
	"shown" on screen.


Most of these functions are also available from the menu.

Note that up to 70 items are allowed.  Each can be up to 50 
characters long. Unregistered users will get a "nag" message when 
entering all records after the first 20.


Change History
==============
1.11    Added Tab Bar and corrected first-time only loading routine.
        (22 Nov 92)

1.12    Options Settings now saved with file so that the same options
        are set when a file is reloaded.
        Error fixed: Top level outline cannot now be deleted.

1.13
        Many bug fixes.
        Save As and Revert options.
        Small font.
        Tab Bar changed to Header Bar with amended layout including time.
        Configurable delete warnings.
        Key usage amended to conform with Psion apps and with TODO program.
        (28 Nov 92)

1.14
        ENHANCEMENTS
        Open File option added
        New File option added
        Print File option added
        Configuration options for new files can now be saved in a .INI file
        Push/Pull lines facility 
        All files may now exist on any drive.
        Screen display speeded up by scrolling rather than redisplaying
         when moving one line off the screen.
        Screen display moved slightly to the left to show more of each entry
        Display now more intelligent following enter line, set level and
         goto link.
        Headers now same as Todo program (with Todo version 1.14)
        Special Fonts for levels 1 and 2 can be turned off.

        FIXES:
        Pressing the '9' key now shows all levels rather than 
         just levels 1-9.
        Can now escape from Set Link
        Error following Enter line fixed: could sometimes cause program
         to abort.
        (5 Dec 92)

1.14a
        FIXES
        All keys should now work with CAPS LOCK on.
        Credit changed to Lexsoft from John Whiting.

1.14b
        ENHANCEMENTS 
        Minor Programming changes including Nag screen.

1.14c   (18 December 1992)
        FIXES
        Problem with copy past end of file when using small font fixed.
        Problem on Open file fixed which caused major error.

        
1.15        (31 December 1992)
        ENHANCEMENTS
        Notes can now be attached to any entry.
        "Nag" messages appear on file opening and entry creation (after 
        the first 20 entries)
        Date display updated at midnight.

1.15a        (3 January 1993)
        ENHANCEMENTS
        When creating note (Psion-W), program detects whether .WRD 
        suffix is supplied.
        Name of note on a new line not being set to blank.

1.15b        Not released

1.15c        (5 January 1993)
        ENHANCEMENTS
        Psion-R now allows existing note to be attached.
        FIXES
        Note path now saved with file

1.15d   (16 January 1993)
        ENHANCEMENTS
        Memory Usage when application is open but dormant is reduced by 
         about 10k.
        Out of Memory error now displays message and allows user to shut
         down existing applications before continuing.
        Selection of default note path is via file selection dialog rather
         than text entry.
        Level number markers are now selectable.  They can be on, off or 
         left justified.

        FIXES
        If Psion is running in the mode where Enter closes any existing
         files open for the application, then opening an existing outline or
         selecting a new outline caused the open outline not to be saved.

1.16    (19 January 1993)
        ENHANCEMENTS
        Up/Down cursor processing speeded up

        FIXES
        Error introduced in 1.15d which caused files not to be saved if
         the application is terminated from the system screen.

1.16a   (24 January 1993)
        FIXES
        Fixed error in error routine which displayed "MODULE ALREADY LOADED"

1.16b   (31 January 1993)
        FIXES
        Fixed error in Revert which caused spurious additional lines.

1.16c   (2 February 1993)
	ENHANCEMENTS
	Removed introduction message which flashed briefly on screen at
	 start of program.

1.16d   (2 May 1993)
	FIXES
	Fixed various obscure errors	

1.17	(27 June 1993)
	FIXES
	Option to save ERROR.OUT to any drive.

1.19	(21 August 1993)
	ENHANCEMENTS
	Print Option added based on previous Export option.
	Top level module rewritten in C.
	FIXES
	Better handling of "Out of Memory" errors.

1.19b   (24 August 1993)
	FIXES
	Default options set if INI file not found.

John Whiting
3 Fitzwilliam Road
Colchester
Essex
CO3 3RZ
0206 564042

johnw@cix.compulink.co.uk
100025,3337 on Compuserve
