Star Trek- written by Tim Begley, out of a love for the Star
	Trek universe, and a fond memory of playing my first comput-
	er Trek game on a 16K TRS-80 Model 1, many years ago.  I hope
	you enjoy the game.

Registration: I wrote this game to learn more about OPL, and
	to see how rusty my programming skills were.  In it, I have
	included no nagging screens begging for money, and the pro-
	gram is crippled in no way.  Should you feel guilty about
	using this program, the fruit of my hard labor [:-)], and
	want to send me money, feel free to do so.  If not, all I
	will ask for is a note (E-mail or otherwise) telling me how
	you like the program.  Comments, suggestions, or improvements
	are welcome.  If you wish a printout of the source code,
	write to: Tim Begley  6189 Hickory St.  Omaha, NE, USA 68106
	or e-mail Begley@Gonix.Com.  The cost is $25.00 (US) for
	e-mail, or $26.00 (US) for snail-mail.  I will also include a
	description of all variables, and be available for questions
	about the program.

Legal Stuff: Star Trek (and all related terminology) are property
	of Paramount Studios, Inc. and are used without permission.
	TRS-80 is a registered trademark of Tandy/Radio Shack Corp.  
	The author assumes no liability for any damage or loss of data 
	as a result of this program.  User assumes all responsibility.
	This program is copyright 1995, Tim Begley.  It cannot be
	altered in any way without the written permission of Tim Begley.
	Distribution is free, and is encouraged, as long as this file
	accompanies the program.  There is no warranty, implied or other-
	wise, with this program.

Installation: The zip file contains the following files:
	STARTREK.OPO and this files, STARTREK.TXT.  To install,
	copy STARTREK.OPO to your \OPO\ subdirectory.  Startrek.opo
	takes about 10K to run, and the program takes up about 12K 
	on whatever disk you put it on.

Instructions: You are the Captain of the Enterprise.  You are
	confined to an 8 by 8 sector of space, where it is your job
	to kill all Klingons and Romulans that enter this sector.
	There will be starbases in your area that you can get
	repairs, and occasionally the Romulans will attack one of
	them.  It is also up to you to defend them.  The number of
	Klingons and Starbases is randomly chosen, and shown on the
	viewscreen when the program is started.

View Screen: On the left side of the Psion screen is the 
	Enterprise viewscreen.  The Enterprise is represented by an
	"E", the Klingons by a "K", and starbases by a "B".  The 
	quadrant you are in is printed below the screen.  The enemy
	ship strength is shown in the center of the Psion screen.
	As the enemy ship gets damaged, the status bar fills in. 
	On the right, your ship system status is shown.  Status
	bars are shown for the Right and Left Warp Engines, the
	Impulse Engine, the Shields, and the Phasers.  As the systems
	get damaged, the status bars fill in.  A condition bar is
	shown with "Red" showing when enemies are present, and
	"Green" when the sector is clear.  The current stardate is
	shown below.

Commands: The commands are available through hotkeys, or
	through the menu key.
	Movement (m): You are asked for a course setting and a warp
		speed.  Your course is chosen through the following grid:
		8 1 2  with "E" representing the Enterprise, a choice of
		7 E 3  "1" would move the ship up, "4" down and to the
		6 5 4  right, etc.  The warp speed is the number of quad-
		rants to move (maximum of 8).
	S-R Sensor (r): This will re-draw the current quadrant on the
		view screen.
	L-R Sensor (l): This option will give you a view of the 
		neighboring quadrants.
	Phasers (p): This will fire phasers.  Aiming is taken care of
		by other ship systems.  Phaser strength decreases as
		distance increases.
	Shields (s):  This will allow you to either raise or lower
		your shields.
	Damage Control (d): How your ship systems get repaired.  The
		damage control teams can only repair 1 system per stardate.
		The systems that can be repaired are: right and left warp
		engines, impulse engine, and the phaser.  When any of these
		are repaired, the ships' shields are also repaired.
	Computer (c): The ships computer will give you either a full
		galactic map, or a status report of your current mission.
	There is also information about the game, and an exit option.

Romulan Attacks: Occasionally, the Romulans will attack a star-
	base.  When they do, a sub-space message will be sent to you,
	and should you choose to ignore it, the base will be destroyed.
	The Romulans use their cloaking device, and are invisible to
	the screen.  Their weapon can only be fired half as often as
	phasers, but it is more powerful.

Docking at the Starbase: To dock, manuever your ship on top of
	the base.  The starbase crews can repair all ships systems
	in a short amount of time.

Damage: As the enemy ship gets damaged, their phasers are less
	effective.  And, so are yours.  It is best to repair phasers
	first.  Also, if your engines are heavily damaged, your speed
	is limited.  If your matter/anti-matter field generator is
	destroyed as a result of an attack, the warp engines will
	explode and the Enterprise will be destroyed.  Damage is
	allocated first to the shields, and should they not be able
	to handle the energy, interior hits will be taken on various
	systems (reflected on the status display).  If a system has
	been fully damaged, it is out of service, and must be repaired.

Welcome to Federation space...Engage!
