



				    Jumpy!

				    3.00F


			(C)opyright 1992-1998 Jon Read




About Jumpy!
------------
The Series 3 platform game Jumpy! was first released as shareware in
September 1992.  Version 2.01 was released commercially by Psion on Games
Pack 2.

Versions 1.00A to 2.10F were updates of the original for the Series 3a/c
and Siena.

This is version 3.00F, which features a much improved game engine with
many new features.  This is the first release under the Palmscape banner.

Installation
------------
Extract the files from the distribution archive, restoring the original
directory structure if possible. (To do this with pkzip, use the -d flag).

1. Copy the file JUMPY.OPA into any \APP directory.
2. Create a new directory, \APP\JUMPY
3. Copy the following files into this directory:
	CLASSIC.DAT
	CLASSIC.PIC
	COMMON.PIC
	JENG.DYL
	JUMPY.HLP
	PLUS.DAT
	PLUS.PIC

The title screen
----------------
When you run the game, you will be presented with the Jumpy! title screen.
Use the left and right cursor keys on this screen to select whether you
wish to play Jumpy! Classic or Jumpy! Plus; the title graphic will change
to the appropriate game.

Pressing Enter will then start the selected game.

If you have played some levels before and wish to skip them, you can
press Psion-J or select "Jump to screen" from the title screen menu to
display the "Jump to screen" dialog.  This dialog can be used to enter
the codes you are given when you reach a particular screen; if you enter
a correct code, a new game will be started at the specified screen.

Playing the game
----------------
On starting a game, you should see a little round thing with eyes and feet
sitting on a platform in the middle of the screen.  That's Jumpy.  You have
to guide him round each screen, picking up the spheres.  When all of these
have been collected, a door opens.  To finish a screen, enter this door.

Of course, it's not that simple.  There are a few obstacles here and
there, arranged so as to give you as much hassle as possible - especially in
the later screens!

 Spikes:            Contact with spikes hurts, as you will find out. You
		    lose one of your three lives if you touch a spike.

 Ice:               Once you've got used to it, ice isn't that bad. The
		    only problem is that you can't stand still!

 Creatures:         They move left and right along a preset course.  Touch
		    one and you lose one of your lives.

 Sticky floors:     When you are standing on a sticky floor, you can't jump.
		    It's best to try and predict what this will mean in a
		    situation before you plough on in - this is used in many
		    a trap.

 Ladders:           Ladders can be used to climb up or down.  That's about
		    all there is to them.

 Crumbling floors:  When your foot touches one of these, it will begin to
		    crumble away - it's best to leave as much floor intact
		    as possible, in case you need to pass that way again.

 Conveyor belts:    When standing on one of these, you will be moved along
		    in the direction of the arrow.  If you try to move
		    against the flow, you will stop; if you try to move
		    with the flow you will zip along more quickly.

 Springs:           Spring shoot you up into the air whether you like it or
		    not.  There are three different strengths of spring,
		    each shooting you a different height.
 
 Switchable walls   These walls and floors appear as chains on the screen.
 and floors:        They can be turned on and off using the...
 
 Switches:          ... which, erm, switch them.  There are two types of
		    switch; toggle switches which you have to activate 
		    manually, and push switches which are activated when
		    you pass over them.

Sticky floors, ladders, crumbling floors, conveyor belts, springs, switchable
walls, switchable floors, push switches and toggle switches only appear in
Jumpy! Plus.

To move left, press either the left cursor key or "I".
To move right, press either the right cursor key or "P".
To jump or climb up, press the up cursor key or "Q".
To climb down or activate a toggle switch, press the down cursor key
or "A".

If you switch to another task, the game will be automatically paused.

That's basically it.  The first couple of screens are easy, to help you get
the hang of it - but some of the later levels are very, very hard!

The unregistered version only allows you to play the first four levels
of Jumpy! Classic and Jumpy! Plus; that's 8 levels in all.

Map
---
While playing a game, selecting "View Map" or pressing Psion-M will bring
up a map of the current level.  This map can be used to plan your way
around difficult areas and avoid traps; use it wisely... :-)
The map screen also displays a key which depicts the different elements
of a level.

Scores
------
The high score screen is available from the title screen, and is also
displayed if you achieve a high score.  The high score screen has a menu,
from which you can reset the high scores, return to the title screen or
exit the program.  There are different sets of high scores for the
"Classic" and "Plus" games.

Memory
------
Jumpy! requires approximately 86k free memory to run.  If you are using
digital sounds, these will not play unless you have an extra 10k free,
ie. 96k free in total.
As Jumpy! stores the options, registration info and the high scores in 
files on the internal drive (in a \GPK directory, as used by Psion's
own games packs), these may also become corrupt in low memory
situations.  You will be warned if this is likely to happen, and the
program will attempt to resolve the situation.


Registration
------------
Jumpy! is shareware, and has taken a great deal of time to develop.
If you wish to continue playing it, please register.  Registering
allows you to play all 33 levels of Jumpy! Classic and all 36
levels of Jumpy! Plus.  Unregistered, you may play the first 4
levels of each game. These first four are easy; the later levels
increase in difficulty as the game progresses.

Registration is either 12 UKP, 24 USD or 36 GDM.  
All purchases made in UK Pounds by customers based in an EU
country will be subject to sales tax (V.A.T) of 17.5%, bringing
the cost up to 14.10 UKP.

You may register online using your credit card by visiting the
Palmscape web site at http://www.palmscape.com.  

You can also register by post.  Please mark clearly the product 
you are purchasing, your email address, contact telephone number 
or postal address to one of the following addresses. 

United Kingdom: direct to Palmscape. Payment can be accepted in 
either cash in any currency, money order in Sterling or UK Bank 
Cheque made payable to "Palmscape". 
  Palmscape,
  44 Harpur Street,
  Bedford,
  Bedfordshire,
  MK40 2QT.
  England. 
You can also make your purchase by telephone: +44 (0)1234 353970 

United States: via RegNet. Payment can be accepted in either cash 
in US Dollars only, US money order or US Bank Check made payable
to "RegNet". Please mark clearly which Palmscape product you are
registering. 
  RegNet (Wintronix, Inc.)
  24303 Walnut Street
  Suite 200
  Newhall, CA 91321 
You can also make your purchase by telephone: Toll free within the 
US: 1 800 WWW2REG (1 800 999-2734) International: +1 (805) 288-1827 

Germany: via PsioLogic. Payment can be accepted in either cash in
German Deutchmarks only, German money order or German Bank Check
made payable to "PsioLogic". Please mark clearly which Palmscape
product you are registering.
  PSIOlogic 
  Versand 
  Sudetenstrae 46 D 63571 
  Gelnhausen 
You can also make your purchase by telephone: 
Tel: [+49] (0)6051/9655-0 Fax: [+49] (0)6051/9655-25 

When registering, please ensure you include the following details:

1) The name of the person to which you wish the program to be
registered.

2) Either your email address (preferred) or your postal address,
and a telephone number.

Your registration code will be sent to the address that you supply
as soon as your payment is processed.  This is usually within 24-48
hours when registering online or by phone.
  
Thank you for supporting this software!


Online Support
--------------
If you wish to report bugs or comment on Jumpy!, please email
jon@palmscape.com.

For more information, and details of other Palmscape products, visit the
web site at http://www.palmscape.com/.

---

Jon Read                                               6th November 1998
jon@palmscape.com
http://www.palmscape.com
