Mastermind for Psion Series 5
==========
This game is based on the popular logical game of the same name, but instead of using coloured pegs, the game sets a code of random digits which you have to crack.

Installation
------------
Double tap on the m_mind.opo icon in the system screen.

Overview
--------
The computer picks a random code. You have to guess the code. The computer assesses each guess and tells you two things:
1. How many of the letters in your guess correspond exactly to the equivalent position in the code;
2. How many of the other letters in your guess are present in the code but in a different position from where you guessed.
So for example, if the computer picks BCDE, and you guess BCDB,  your first B and your C are fully correct and in the right place. Your E in the third position is involved in the code but not where you guessed it is. And the second B is not counted, as your first B has already scored for it. So you are told that 2 digits are completely right, and that another 1 is right but in the wrong place.

How to play
-----------
On starting the game, you are presented with a dialog. The first line asks for the number of letters the computer should set - choose a number between 3 and 12. The second line asks which letters should be available for its code. If you specify 5, say, the code will be chosen at random from A B C D and E.
The computer will then draw the screen. The code is represented by the question marks on the extreme right of the screen. Your first guess will be shown downwards on the extreme left. The cursor can be moved up and down with the cursor keys, and you can delete a digit by typing a space over it.
Type in your guess. The computer will ignore any illegal characters you try to enter. When you are happy with the letters showing, guess by pressing enter.
Two numbers will appear under the frame, directly beneath your guess. The first number, level with the O on the right hand side, shows you how many of your digits are completely right. And the second, level with the cross, shows how many are in the answer but in the wrong place. The cursor is placed ready for your next guess.
You have a screenful of guesses available to you, which is 25. If you guess the code within 15 attempts, well done. If not, the computer will tell you what the code was.
Control
-------
Ctrl-I will give you a summary of the instructions.
Ctrl-E will quit.

Disclaimer &c
-------------
I will not accept responsibility for anything bad that happens to you or anyone else or your pets or your computer or its pets as a result of using this program.
Please report bugs and other feedback to neilsands@cix.co.uk
Neil Sands
Flat 7
30 Queen Street
Aberystwyth
Ceredigion
United Kingdom
+44 1970 627063

Mae'r ffeil hon ar gael yn iaith y nefoedd, os oes angen arnoch