Patsiena Version 1.2
Copyright (C) Palmscape and M.C.Wheadon 1998

Overview

Patsiena is a game of patience for your Siena.  It's shareware, but feel
free to try it out and see what you think.

Installation

To install:
	- copy App\Patsiena.opa to \App\ on your Psion
	- create a directory called \App\Patsiena on your Psion and copy
	   both files below App\Patsiena (Patshelp.rsc and Patsiena.pic)
	   into that directory
	- Install Patsiena using `Install' below the Apps menu on the system
	   screen in the usual way.
	   
Contact Information

Should you wish to contact the author, I can be reached by email
as mark@palmscape.com, or you can write to me (Mark Wheadon)
care of the address listed below.
I hope you like Patsiena - please let me know if you have any ideas
as to how it could be improved.

Registration

Full registration details can be found in the on-line help, but for your
convenience, here's a copy of that information:

Registration
This is shareware, which means that if you keep it, you must
register. Once registered, you will also benefit from the following
added features:

- your personal best will be remembered between sessions,
    as will your preferences;
- you may switch off the animation which occurs whilst the game is
    in play and/or whilst dealing  (the latter is a popular option as
    it speeds up the dealing);
- if you're good enough, you can continue the game all the way to
    no jokers, and beyond.

There are two ways to register.

You may register online using your credit card by visiting Palmscape's
web page at

http://www.palmscape.com/

Alternatively, you can register by sending a UK cheque for 12 pounds
sterling or a US cheque for $20 made payable to Palmscape to:

   Palmscape
   44 Harpur Street
   Bedford
   MK40 2QU
   ENGLAND

Enclose your name (clearly please, as it's used to generate the licence
info.), your address and, if you have one, your email address.
Please also write your name and email address on the back of
the cheque.

Should you wish to contact the author, his email address is
mark@palmscape.com

As soon as we have processed your payment we will send you
your licence information.  All you then need do is select `Register'
from Patsiena's menu and type in the licence details.

Your copy will then be registered, and will behave accordingly!
