See7 v1.0

Introduction

Hello, and welcome to See7 v1.0.

This program was written to combat the
problem of time-tabling. Basically this
program provides an easy reference point
 for the days' or weeks' forthcoming lectures
 etc.

Thee program is simple to use and simple to 
install. The program can be exited due to the
"boards" being saved out, so that upon reloading,
the last entries inputted are still available to
be shown on the screen. If you don't get this,
then use the program and find out what is
meant!

See7 v1.0 runs on Series 3 machines
only, in the background, and allows the 
machine to auto-switch off. It uses only
about 24k of RAM although the help
file is optional, which reduces the need to
only about 20k. It  only  needs about 15k 
of memory to run.

Installation

The See7v1.zip file contains three files. 
These are listed below:

See7v1.opa : The program file
See7v1.txt : This file in plain text format
See7v1.rsc : The program help file

Place the .opa file into the \APP directory, 
and install from the system screen. If you 
want the online help then put the .rsc file
into the \APP\SEE7 directory that is created when the program is first run. Optionally you can create a sub-
directory of the \APP directory called SEE7. This help
 file is optional though, so if you have a lack of 
space; you can remove it. Upon REGISTRATION;
 See7.reg  is created in the \APP\SEE7 directory.
 This is the file used for registration purposes. 

In the \APP\SEE7 directory, the program creates 7
files: one for each day of the week. It is in these
that the entries you input are saved out to.

The program has been designed and tested on the
internal RAM of a 3c only, but running it from
a SSD should be okay, as long as it is RAM.
Operation

This program has been designed, and 
thus programmed to be user friendly
and as such: easy to use.

The operation of this program is pretty easy
once you have run through it once. Firstly, the
first time the program is run, there is a slight
delay of about 2 seconds; as the files and directory
the program uses, are created. Every time the program
is run after this; the delay is less; being only about 1
second. A little message is displayed as the program
delays. After this you are faced with information
boards about the program, (in fact that it is share-
ware), and a chance to enter the registration code.
Pressing ENTER will remove these screens one at a time.

When in the program proper, you are faced with the
table screen. By pressing MENU you are able to choose
the course of operation, (select day, exit etc). The DAY
SELECTION menu allows you choose the day you wish
to edit and then show. Due to the size of the screen, the
entries you type in are limited in length to 45 characters.
After inputting your entries; the program displays
the selected days' "board". Just follow on from here to
select the day you wish to edit and view, and then leave
running or exit the program.

Currently this program does not support printing of the
"boards". Future releases may have this feature, but if you
do wish to print the boards, and have access to the web,
then out there... are some packages that allow you to "grab"
the screen, and then print it out to a parallel or serial printer, or even through DOS. The author currently uses
DRAW v2.84, a complete and very flexible drawing package
that runs on the Series 3 range. The author is Rick Andrews,
and many links to his web page are in existence. If you do
not have access to the web however, and wish to print,
then get in touch with the author, and maybe a comp-
romise could be reached!

Registration

You are entitled to evaluate the
program for 20 days, but after this period
if you continue using the program; you must
register it.

Registration removes the nagscreens. Also it
means you are supporting the shareware 
market; are clearing your conscience; and 
are inviting me to write more programs for 
the Psion Series 3 range of handheld compu-
ters. Lastly; the author will offer free support 
for this program. To register: send a cheque or cash
for œ3 UK, or $5 US, (or equivalent in your currency) 
to the address below:

5 Kenyon Rd
North End
Portsmouth
Hants
PO2 OJZ
England

E-mail: (for any comments, suggestions etc)

         GEOG6090@GEOG.PORT.AC.UK

Make cheques payable to C.Holland,and include
a letter stating your full address, e-mail if 
applicable, and any other forms of communicat-
ion open to you, along with your full name, 
the version number of the program, and details
of where you acquired this program.

If you are yourself a programmer, then I may
consider "swapping" the code for this program
with a code for one of your own programs, should
I find a use for one of yours; but obviously 
send me details of where to obtain your program.

Legal Considerations

The author is unable to accept any liability 
for loss or damage to software, files, or hardware 
that may result as a consequence of using this
program. You use this software at you own risk.
It is your own choice to make backups of all
important data before using this package, but
the author recommends it just in case!.

To the best of the authors knowledge; this program
is free of bugs and problems. However if you should
find any bugs, please notify the author at the 
e-mail address listed in REGISTRATION section. 

Version History

v1.0 : This release, the first release and the first "writing"
           of this program.

C.K.Holland Jan/Feb 1998.

