                       SOLITAIRE  v 1.10

What??? ANOTHER Patience game for the Psion 3a??!!
But wait - this one's really good!  It features:

    þ Six different basic games
    þ Loads of configuration options: you can mix
      your own game, adjust the difficulty, or cheat
      your socks off!
    þ Fast, detailed graphics
    þ A helpful user interface
    þ Auto-move, auto-turn and auto-finish
    þ Powerful hint system
    þ Extensive on-line help
    þ Restart and multiple `undo'
    þ Column compression (no need to scroll the screen up
      or down)
    þ Replay particular games
    þ Independent screen contrst setting
    þ Several `win' screens

In short, it's a masterpiece :-)
See the History section at the bottom for details of changes
since the previous version.


    INSTALLATION  ("How do I load this smashing game?")

The files you need are:-
    SOLITARE.OPA  - the program
    SOLITARE.RSC  - the help file (optional)
    SOLI1.FNT     \
    SOLI2.FNT     - font files
    SOLI3.FNT     /

You can put the program file anywhere you like, although I suggest
putting it in an \APP\ directory (e.g. M:\APP\).  The font files
and help file should go in the same directory, or better still,
create a subdirectory called SOLITARE\ and put them in there.

Also provided is a German version of the on-line help.  To use this,
remove the existing SOLITARE.RSC and rename SOLI_GER.RSC back to
SOLITARE.RSC.  Thanks to Stephan for translation!


A settings file is created and maintained automatically
(M:\OPD\SOLITARE.INI).  If you are upgrading from a previous
version, your old settings file will be ignored and overwritten.


    PLAYING  ("What do I do with it?")

The different games are: Klondike (standard), Stack, Scorpion, King
Albert, Canfield, and FreeCell - I won't go into details on the
various games or how to play them, as the online help explains all.
Try them and see!


    HEALTH WARNING!  ("Too much Solitaire is bad for you...")

This game can be _very_ addictive: I've spent far too many hours
having `just one more game' - and I've got the excuse of testing
the program!  So, please take care not to get _too_ attached to it.


    AVAILABILITY  ("So, is it free, or what?")

Solitaire is Freeware!  This means you're free to use it and copy it
to your friends, BBS, Web site, etc., provided that all these files
are distributed together and unchanged, and you don't charge for it.

I don't like crippled software, and so this is the full version "wi'
now't taken out"!  Unfortunately for me, this gives you no incentive
to send me anything...

So: if you use Solitaire, PLEASE let me know.  I'd also appreciate:
some dosh (would you be prepared to pay œ5 or œ10 for a commercial
game of this quality?), other software, or perhaps a quick note or
postcard.  I'd welcome any comments about the game, suggestions for
improvement, or even criticism as long as it's constructive!

Solitaire has taken an awful lot of work, time and effort (probably
over a hundred hours in all) - I did it for my own enjoyment as well,
of course, and it brightened up some otherwise very boring train
journeys.  But I'd be depressed if I thought no-one else was enjoying
it too!


    CONTACT  ("Who do I thank?")

            Andrew Giddings

     Email: gidds@cix.co.uk

Snail mail: 1 Pavilion Close
            Southend-on-Sea
            Essex  SS2 4TZ
            England


    CREDITS  ("Roll 'em")

The program and support files are Copyright (c) 1997 UK Andrew Giddings.

Thanks are due to:
      Stephan Hradek for ideas, testing, German translation, and
          generally bugging me :)
      Andy Clarkson for OPP - it's excellent!
      Jezar at Psion for the help compiler
      Steve Godfrey for his font editor
      Steves Litchfield and Clack et al for keeping the Psion
          scene bubbling.
      And of course, Psion for making such a powerful and friendly
          machine!  (Plug, plug - do I get a Series 5 for this?)


    DISCLAIMER  ("It's not my fault!")

Although I've done my best to make Solitaire perfect, the chances are
that there's just one more bug lurking somewhere.  So, please don't
hold me responsible if the program crashes, does strange things, or
even causes aliens to invade and capture you and your Psion.


    FURTHER INFO  ("Can I go home now?")

Why did I write Solitaire?  Well, there wasn't a good enough version
already!  (Before I get lots of hate mail, let me add: none that I've
seen, anyway : )  I don't want to criticise anyone, but I've seen too
many programs that are far slower, more buggy, or harder to use than
necessary.  I hope I've been able to show that, even using OPL, it's
possible to write good, fast games.


    HISTORY  ("What's this version number all about then?")

v1.10
    Several minor bugfixes, including a rare freeze condition,
        and the `number of times through pack' option.
    New Diamond search key (like `.' but cycles round)
    Hint and Find now cycle through all possible moves
    Independent screen contrast (separate settings inside
        and outside the game)
    Can now move several cards to a home pile in one go
    Can select a particular deal number
    Column cards are now shifted down when you select them, to
        show the bottom one clearly
    New `preferences' dialogue for non-game-related options
    Options now stored per game
    New menu for game selection, and improved options dialogues
    New option for building a new column on a face-down card
    Relevant menu options are now available from win screens
    German translations courtesy of Stephan
    
v1.01
    Fixed bug with initial options causing crash when redrawing the pack
    Fixed bug with autoput at start even if not set

v1.00
    First release



Finally:
  SHARE AND ENJOY!!      _
                        /_|_
                       /  |/_n_d_y

