SaleTrax Version 1.55 Shareware

Copyright Chris Nicholson - September 1996 - November 1997

Please mail all suggestions, comments or details of problems to me at 
ChrisNicholson1@compuserve.com

Visit my web site at http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/chrisnicholson1
for all the latest information and updates on my programs.

A very versatile contact manager whose features include: 

Allows simple updating from main PC programs by retaining links to Word files
The ability to link 6 records to one primary
Attach a note file to each record
Attach a Sheet file to each record
Stores action, visit and call dates
Monitors and prompts recalls requiring attention
4 user defined fields
Reporting based on calls, visits or actions
Tag records to allow easy viewing of selected contacts
Dial from the system screen
Includes a macro to copy due actions to Agenda
Import facility


REGISTRATION

SaleTrax V1.55 is shareware. You can use it free for 21 days, after this it 
must be registered. Until you receive your registration code each file is restricted 
to 40 records.
               
This software represents many hours of programming, so if you like it please register.

SaleTrax V1.55 can be registered in two ways.

. Compuserve On-line registration ($20) via "Go Swreg" SWREG ID = 13077

. By Mail, send a cheque for £12, made payable to Chris Nicholson, to

	26 The Elms
	Hertford
	Herts
	SG13 7UX
	England
	

DISCLAIMER

No responsibility is accepted by the author for any loss of data, however 
caused, by the use or misuse of SaleTrax. The responsibility for any consequences
of installation or use rest solely with the user. No warranties or guarantees of 
any kind are implied. The author accepts absolutely no responsibility for any 
decisions formulated using information provided by SaleTrax.


DISTRIBUTION

SaleTrax V1.50 is freely distributable to anyone so long as it is distributed in 
UNMODIFIED FORM along with this unmodified readme file, and that no further fees are charged.  


FILES
	
Saletrax.opa		Any drive :\app			Program file
Sale1.opo		Any drive :\app\saletrax	Program file
Sale2.opo		Any drive :\app\saletrax	Program file
Jbsortb.img		Internal M:\app			Program file (courtesy of John Boyce)

Optional files
Salehelp.rsc		Internal M:\app\saletrax	Help file
Stx2agn.mco		Internal M:\macro\mco		Macro


INSTALLATION (New Users)

Copy the file Saletrax.opa to directory \app on any drive.

Copy Sale1.opo and Sale2.opo to the directory \app\saletrax on any drive.

Copy Jbsortb.img to the directory M:\app on the internal drive.

If you want to use the online help then install the file Salehelp.rsc to the directory 
M:\app\saletrax on the internal drive.

I have provided a macro that greatly increases the versatility of Saletrax by copying all
actions for the day it is activated to Agenda. The macro is written for MacSys and for 
its installation you should refer to your MacSys help file. It should only be run once a 
day because it cannot detect if it has already copied information over. I find that the 
most convienient way is to set up an Alarm in Server and instruct it to run the macro 
everyday at 6.00am.

Then install on the system screen using Psion-I. 


HISTORY

Version 1.55

Removal of flashing dialogs
Faster listing
Improved screen information
Minor bug fixes and improvements

Version 1.50

Faster special listing
Changed 2 fields to user defined
Improved macro for daily transfer to Agenda
Removed most Nag screens
Added Save As feature and compress
Plus many more minor fixes

Version 1.40

Improved preferences to allow manual naming of Word files
Re-written to a multi file setup like Word and Data
Improved speed of operation
Many minor bug fixes

Version 1.30

Added import facility
Improved memory usage
Increased length of 4th user field
Minor bug fixes

Version 1.21

Minor bug fixes

Version 1.20

Initial release


Getting Started

On using the program for the first time, you will automatically be
presented with the add entry dialog box. You have to input at least 
one contact before the program will continue.

Once you have saved this first record the screen switches to list view
and all of the programs menu options are available.


File Management

SaleTrax can now support multiple files, like Word and Sheet, so 
that if required you can divide your information into different 
categories. To create a new file from the system screen put the 
cursor under the SaleTrax icon and press Psion-N, you will then 
be prompted for a new file name. Once this is completed SaleTrax 
will start with this as the current file. To start using an 
existing file place the cursor under the SaleTrax icon on the 
system screen and scroll down to the required file, then press 
enter.


Adding Records

Primary records are added by using Psion-A. 

To add a Secondary linked record, go to the Primary record that you 
want to link it too and press the corresponding number (1 - 6) that 
you want to assign it to and complete the necessary fields.


Importing Records

You can import records from other Psion Data files by using the import 
facility. Select Psion-I and decided whether you want to import to the 
currently open SaleTrax file or create a new one. Then select the Data 
file that you want to import.

You are then required to define the field layout of the Data file that 
you are importing. For example if the import file fields are in the 
following order;

Company, Address 1, Address 2, Town, County, Postcode, Contact, Title

Then you would insert the following numbers for the relevant fields;

Company		1
Contact		7
Title		8
Address 1	2
Address 2	3
Town		4
County		5
Postcode 	6

If you are unsure create a new Saletrax file and have a trial run, 
that way no data is damaged.


Deleting Records

Records can only be deleted from the main screens, i.e. not from a 
list view.


Searching

You can search for a record using Psion-F and then insert your 
search criteria. When the program finds a record with a field that 
matches this criteria you will be presented with an option box. If 
the selected details are for the record that you require then you 
can simply select this record or if not continue the search. If you 
are unsure then you can tag it and then continue the search. This 
allows you to build a tagged list of selected records based on any
set criteria.


Program control

There are 4 list views and you can alternate between them by 
using Psion-L.

To select a record from the list view press enter. If it is a 
Primary record you are first shown Screen 1, for a Secondary one 
you go first to Screen 2.

To switch between Screens 1 and 2 use the Diamond key.

To move between records in list view use either the up/arrow keys, 
page up/down or home/end.

To move between records in normal view use either the left/right 
arrow keys or home/end.

Records can be tagged to allow selective viewing or export 
options. To operate the tag option use the Tab key to turn it on 
or off.

To select a linked Secondary record press it's relevant number key 
from the Primary record.

To return to the Primary record use the Space key.

Using the escape key will always take you back to the list view 
that you are currently using.

Each record can have a Word note attached to it. This is activated 
by pressing the "N" key, in any view, You can then enter in any 
contact information and when you exit you are automatically 
returned to SaleTrax.

Each record can have a Sheet file attached to it. This is activated
by pressing the "S" in any view. When you exit Sheet you are 
automatically returned to SaleTrax.

To dial from a record just press the "D" key, you will then be 
presented with the telephone number for that record. If the number 
is correct then press enter and the number will be dialled.

The record number is shown in the very top window on Screens 1 
and 2, alongside the screen title. To jump to a particular record 
number use Psion-J.


Recording Contact

Each record can have an action date and reference assigned to it by
using Psion-R. Each time the program is started (unless this is 
disabled), it checks to see if there are any actions due. If 
there is or any are overdue, then an option screen will appear 
allowing you to list and work with just those records.

Once contact has been made it should be logged using Psion-L. If the
contact is the result of an action reminder then you can copy the
details across without having to re-enter the same information. This 
dialog box also allows you to clear any of the contact field 
information applicable to that record. You are then given the option
to add any further information in the records' Word file.

There is also a macro available that will check all of the SaleTrax
files and copy the name of any actions due for that day into the 
agenda file.


Reports

All the reports can be accessed via the report section on the menu.

All reports are exported to a Word file so that you can amend and 
check the data before printing.

Once you have selected the type of report that you require, 
completed the export file name and the filter dates you are given 
the option of selecting the information you want exported. The 
minimum export, (none of the boxes set to YES), will export the 
company name, contact, title, telephone number and all the contact 
details.

If the report exceeds 80 records then a new file will be created and
will be named as per the first but with a 2 at the end. It will do
this up to a maximum of 480 records.

Preferences

Here you can change the screen prompts for the 4 user fields.

You can then make the selections for your particular requirements
and the system will then present you with the relevant amendment
screens.

If you have created a secondary record and then deleted it, you can 
remove its' reference from the primary record by amending the link 
field. You can also manually link records by entering the relevant 
information assigned to the number key of you choice (do not forget
that the file is linked to the contact name and not the company 
name).

If you do not want to use the linking then you could always use the 
six number links to store general record information. All you need
to do is enter the information via the preferences menu option.
