Larvae
(c) 1999 Portrayal software
26/6/99

Introduction:
-------------

Larvae is a demo which is freeware so feel free to
distribute to any and all.
Larvae is the first game written by Portrayal software
and is still just a prototype so if any bugs turn up,
please report them. The game can be downloaded initially
only from my own personal virgin net freespace which is
located at: 

freespace.virgin.net/jon.stoackley

Any bug reports or comments - which would be very
usefull at this juncture - can be mailed to me at:

jon.stoackley@virgin.net

Thank you for playing Larvae and I hope you enjoy.

Machine requirements:
---------------------

Due to speed requirements, Larvae will only run properly
speed on the Series 3mx. The Series 3c will run the code
but it will be very slow.
Larvae is also a very big program (by Psion standards)
and requires 450K of free space for storage and a
further 150K to run (600K total required).

Installation instructions:
--------------------------

Installation is very simple, copy the whole Larvae
directly onto the internal drive of the Psion and
install the icon in the system screen from the file
Larvae.opa contained in the larave directory.
IMPORTANT - The larvae directory must be in the placed
in the root directory of the internal drive. putting
it as a subdirectory of another folder WILL NOT work.

It must be:

internal\larvae\

NOT, for example:

internal\games\larvae\

Also note that when unzipping the game the /d option must
be used (if using PKunzip) to preserve the directory structure.

Future developments:
--------------------

Larvae is not shareware in that you have to pay to
register the demo and recieve an upgrade. Hardly anyone
registers shareware, so to keep it simple, if you do want
the full game of Larvae buy it as stand alone software for
about £20. The reason I say about is that I dont know how
much interest people will show in the demo and it may not
be worth writing an extended version at all.

What I can say is that if sufficient interest is shown I
will release full games on the Series 3c, 3mx and 5
each with its own machine specific features.
And also the level editor that I used to create these
levels.
So get those comments to me.

Controls:
---------

The game has a built in help file which will tell you how
to play Larvae. Pressing the help key while in the game
or chooseing the menu option.

Acknowledgements:
-----------------

The code was written by me, Jon Stoackley with the
incredible artwork done by Keith Burridge. A lot of
additional debugging information was also provided
by, 	Jonathan Lawes
	Matt Penny
	Aaron Hayward
	Alan Robinson
	Paul Griffin
	Jody walker

This game and all artwork, code and levels are copyright to
portrayal software.
(c) 1999 Portrayal software.
